---
title: The Path to Self-Consciousness
description: Fear of life at the moment between sleep and waking.
published: no
date:
---

Children cry upon waking, to be dragged unwilling from the womb of sleep and forced to face the world again. Men with uneven temperaments will wake up bitter. Relationships fall apart at the seams when his morning grumpiness reveals a dissatisfaction that betrays the implicit premise of love. Love should be light enough to orient the soul; enough to lighten the pale triviality of everything that weighs down the day. Work is put in its proper place as nothing other than a means of expressing love. If the besotted wakes up unhappy one day, such a mood reveals that he has turned his back on the nominal centre of his life and fallen into idolatry. Money, health, ambition: love gives us respite from our unfortunate obligation to these instruments, whose function is to cleave a place in the world. A bower fit to shade the beloved, a shelter from cruel necessity where love's flourishing promises an earthly paradise.

The devout recall a prayer to mind immediately upon waking. A habit ingrained through constant repetition. A prayer to soothe the spirit's anxious passage from deathlike womb back into the waking world. Practice trains the body to receive the gift of Being with an appropriate mixture of fear and gratitude. Devotion fortifies the vulnerable seams of consciousness with the power of the Absolute. In that slice of time upon waking---at the moment of sheer being---prayer grounds the spirit in exultation before it has a chance to settle into whatever fallen form the chaotic world has forced us into. 

Unlike a mortal lover's, God's love is infinite: a sustenance subject to principles ultimately unknowable, but at least immutable. When everything in life has been reduced to an instrument, the instrument begins to suffer from overuse. Rust sets in and decay spreads. She leaves you, and the home you hollowed out in the side of the world slips into ruin. A mortal girl ruled by an opaque and arbitrary will---just like your own.

In place of a grounding prayer, your body's habit of shame determines your first thought: *what terrible thing did I do last night*? It must have been very bad to account for the crushing sensation waiting to greet you upon waking. A few hours of restless sleep was not enough to dispel the cloud of disappointment hanging over your bed. The city is reborn that morning into the smoke from nearby forest fires that turn the air grey and the sky a hellish orange. Frustrated desire clings heavy to your chest. A power that wants to reach outward, suffocated, collapsing instead into unhappy self-negation.

The shame berates you into facing the day. It drives you out of bed after a struggle, down the hall and into the kitchen where you press the button on the electric kettle. Sometimes shame is productive, a positive indication that you went outside yourself---even if not well-played, the memory of her face is a sign that she probably saw you as well. Your body is malnourished and under-slept, but clear of the lingering grogginess that follows into the morning after heavy drinking. It's Sunday now; you wake up in a state of high stress, but are physically recovered from Friday night. Only six or seven beers, together with a small dose of mushroom tea. Not enough of a crutch to substitute for your spinelessness. You give the cat a pet down his back. Sometimes it's impossible to rise, too Godless and loveless to actualize yourself, you remain immobile instead. The only other force that your consciousness has to push against is the shame that berates you into facing the day.

You open a cupboard and pull out a digital scale, a bag of coffee beans, a paper filter and the plastic cone it sits in, together with a hand-crank grinder. You take a short glass whose shape recalls a laboratory beaker, use it to measure 18 grams of the brown beans. The smell that collects inside their paper bag is like warm-roasted, sulfurous loam; like something that grows under cumulus clouds in the rich black earth on the side of a volcano. You turn the crank on the grinder until the last one has been crushed into an even powder. You dampen the filter in its plastic funnel, position it over the black and gold Scorpio mug on top of the scale, level the grounds, and tare the weight. The kettle has a thin, goose-neck spout, so you can evenly wet the coffee with just 50 grams of water. As you count down thirty seconds in your head, bubbles form and disappear on the surface of the damp coffee grounds. Their colour goes from light brown to dark brown as the water drains away. The gas held in the beans has dissipated, and you pour the rest of the water, leaving just enough space to top with milk and turn the watery black a creamy tan.

Out in the sunlight and warm morning air on the front stoop, feet frying on hot concrete. Following a whim, you whisper her name into your phone. *Jules*. The screen stays black, but Friday night's precise moment of failure appears like a hologram projected before your mind's eye. She saluted you across the crowd, and you returned the gesture. On passing, you bravely resisted turning your head towards her. Her proximity in the open-ended privacy of a party inspired such an intense sensation that it immediately set your heart to pounding. Instead of talking to her, you entered the room as though you wanted nothing other than to remain alone. The room is different now: she's there, occasionally lit up by the flashing lights. Most of the people here are strangers, or people you have already made a judgement on and dismissed...but she is someone you want to be with. You're close enough to hear the sound of her voice as she talks to another man. 

Week after week for months on end you sat next to her, observing her closely, unwittingly becoming transfixed by her aura. In those moments when you felt like she was looking at you, when a gap opened up invitingly, suddenly the roar of the order-word would rise up. A deafening, metallic gong that drowned out all sound, blackened your vision, its vibrations causing your will to tremble until all you could do is put your head down and squeeze. On a few occasions, when you caught sight of her, the colour of her aura was so brilliant your vision washed out and turned greyscale. The shock of her presence trains your body to ignore her. Now, here in private, where you are licensed to act in your own name, you slip back into the habit of self-preservation. Like a head in a jar, no nerve endings, no sensation. She greeted you, and you studiously ignored her. Of course she is going to talk to the one who actually talks to her.

It was thanks to the public institution of Concordia University that you were brought into proximity with her. Your public self is absolutely closed off. In our private capacity, we have the opportunity to be ourselves absent all the accumulated layers of social mediation. The private self is the dark side of our celestial body, unseen by those in parallel ecliptics. However, when two bodies sink into orbit, they revolve around each other like the hermaphroditic twins in *The Symposium*. Two re-joined into their whole form as one, travelling leagues by their great, four-limbed, cartwheeling strides.

Absent family, lover, or God, there is no external body to orient your movement through life. The North Star shines down from the night sky of yourself. A navigation by purely internally-derived object, guiding you nowhere. Navigation by external landmarks is arbitrary, aimless wandering, rather than a purposeful path. Your wandering through the public sphere is guided by a map of all the beautiful women you have turned into landmarks. If you closed your eyes, you could still find your way to them through the familiar pattern of movements that conveys you---to the bar, to the café, to the edge of the parasocial membrane that separates the two of you. A constellation of crushes structures your routine, the heat of potential energy luring your aimless self into distant orbit. A light that shines through the velvet curtain of the night of your sky, betraying the presence of something outside of you. 

Inside public institutions---the university, the streets---the occasional momentary glimmer of recognition is the extent to which you are able to be sociable. These are the ones in whom you thought you recognized something---and for whom you will nurture a version of yourself until your dying day. Or, less likely, until your marriage day. Schrodinger's love affair. One for the girl at the coffee shop you go to more often than you can afford. You were her waiter at her staff party last year, flirted as you poured her glass after glass of pink Australian wine; but when you saw her again in the autumn, you were too confused by the pain of a half-amputated, gangrenous relationship to mention anything, and now the chance has passed. You still like to see her smile, like to think *she must recognize me from somewhere*; and to remember fondly that time when, only half a year ago, when you had a real body; one that could touch others, was seen by others. Now you're a ghost lingering over a preserved head in a jar.

*Hegel* in the Winter semester, months in the past from when you wake up bathed in sunlight and crushed under the weight of your own frustration. A thirteen week course on Tuesday nights, from 18h--20h15 in the basement of the FG building. A lesser mall on Ste-Catherines that has now been partly converted into classrooms. The upper levels, once a food court turned dull from decades of tramping feet, have now been re-made and covered in gloss. Students sit at the benches next to fake greenery, chatting, studying, eating their take-out meals while the wraith-like figures of the downtown homeless drift amongst them. 

The lower levels are another matter. Like Virgil descending into Hell, you descend down into the basement. The escalator is broken, leaving two flights of stairs trafficked by parallel streams of blank-faced Preterites, each on an opposite course to and from their temporary damnation. One turns his head to you, and you see that two silver ingots have been driven into his eyes. Twin streams of dried black blood stand thickly on his cheeks. 

The wall at the bottom of the stairs is mirrored, an architectural feature whose function is to increase visibility in the excessively dim lighting. A dance troupe of four or five girls practise here. Unfamiliar electronic music echoes distorted and chaotic from a cellphone's tinny speaker. The girls move like electrified sprites, and the smell of rotting garbage mingled with sewage hits you as you turn the corner into the main passageway. Trash from the restaurants above is stored in dumpster chambers adjacent to classrooms. Down a fluorescent-lit segmented corridor that stretches the entire length of the block, the interior opens into an incongruously cavernous atrium. The grandeur that was once associated with the cinema. High ceilings, shadows cast by dim light, and the draft of sewage join together to create a maleficent gathering hall. Students sit uneasily at cheap tables too tall for the built-in benches. There is no fake greenery in the basement, where only the damned go. A large puddle of standing water has grown around the blocked drinking fountain. Trash bins overflow with empty cans of Monster and Red Bull, Styrofoam fast food containers coated in red and orange grease. You notice, week after week, the same toilet stall is always silently occupied, the same pair of shoes visible under the door.

The lecture hall is wide and narrow. A far-off din of amplified voices can be discerned through the white walls. The seating creaks unbearably whenever anyone shifts. Professor Angelova tumbles into her lectures breathlessly, moving unpredictably from opening remarks into a rushing stream of exposition. Along the way, she makes extensive use of the blackboard, trying to create a picture of connections out of fleeting thoughts. Entire sentences are transcribed, then gradually over-written by arrows connecting one keyword or paragraph number to another. 

Cross-listed between the Concordia Philosophy Department's undergraduate and Masters programs, the median age in the class is around 25, barring the few old-timers come back to school in their golden years for another brush with Absolute Knowing. The syllabus divides the *Phenomenology of Spirit* over twelve weeks, but omits a few sections, including "Force and the Understanding." The third of the book's opening chapters, it's a fundamental turning point in Hegel's theory of consciousness. This is the stage of the dialectic when consciousness awakens to life, following that first sliver of *sheer being*. You can see the Miller translation's iconic yellow-and-gold cover from where you lie paralyzed in bed, famished and too unhappy to rise. When you eventually turn on the kettle, your eye hits the dark brown spine of Deleuze's *Nietzsche and Philosophy* on the bookshelf. Deleuze borrows heavily from "Force and the Understanding," and Angelova is a Deleuze scholar. She must have decided that an excursion into this important section would divert the course too far from the path she has found through the bush.

It takes a few rotations before you began to notice Jules. You sit behind her in class and can't avoid seeing the screen of her ThinkPad. Nor the back of her neck. The same model as yours, except newer. She's younger than you. Yours is old and you try not to let it leave your desk anymore. A computer-lover's computer. When she pulls up her browser for the first time, her New Tab page gives you something to think about. Loud green text reminds you both to "close this page and go back to what you were doing! :)" 

It's winter outside. Dirty snow impedes traction out in the constant night. A feeble sun clouded by an endless snow front rises late and sets early. You are adrift in darkness: perhaps the Sun has left you too, another severed limb. You shiver and hug yourself. Most of Tuesday is spent inside white and blue plastic rooms lit by fluorescent bulbs. The closest thing to a natural textile at Concordia is the toilet paper. It is the habit of your hardened heart to snap up any chance to hold yourself at a distance from others---but on this occasion, you stay neutral. The screen doesn't flash up often enough to be a significant distraction. She's a better student than most. The big auditoriums are full of hundreds of students, all collectively doing their online shopping while the professor drones on like their job is to punish. Jules stays focused on her notes. Before you begin to consciously become aware of her, you have already seen yourself reflected in her. Already you begin to shift your own orbit to mirror hers.

Most of what you see of her is the woodland hunting-patterned camo hoodie she wears almost every class, hood up to hide in. You've seen enough of her face to know that there is no pretension in wearing the hood indoors. Another choice of yours to be charitable. Each of these decisions keeps you from sinking lower into the soft foam of cynicism, and to instead maintain a favourable disposition. Blue hands reaching for warmth, they blend into the night and no-one notices. Each weekly rotation through the world brings her back into proximity; and just like the world is powered by the desire to see what will happen next, you are kept moving by the desire to know what paths she takes through the rest of her life.

You speak in the first weeks of class, when group dynamics have not yet concretized and there's room for you. The topic is sense-certainty. It's the point at the very beginning of consciousness---a point that never happens in reality---the very first moment. That movement happens in the apprehension of Something---it doesn't matter what: *cogito ergo sum*. Consciousness in its barest theoretical form passes from "immature" immediacy to "mature" immediacy. That's what Elliot calls the two stages present in the chapter. His soft brown leather pencil case lies on the desk next to you, holding the fountain pen that he uses to write in a large, black, hardcover notebook. But he also uses a thin and new-looking silver Macbook. A computer for computer fetishists. What gets written by hand, what gets typed to a file? It's all held in a blue pleather tote. You have a similar bag, but in red and made from a crispy synthetic. Your long hair is also dissimilar to his shaved pate. All these designer accoutrement belie the modesty of his speech. The class is filled with powerful individuals, a potent concentration of sincerity that becomes rare when diluted among the general population.

Elliot comes from his American kingdom and has nothing to prove. He is the heir to the throne; you are a street rat, heir to nothing. Both of you were brought to this unspectacular department by nothing other than love of wisdom. His presence has the quality of a king walking in disguise among the hoi polloi, to see how they live and to therefore learn how to better regulate his power. You are the hoi polloi: this is your ceiling. He was brought to love of philosophy through right upbringing, trained to be a philosopher-king by parents who were themselves trained in virtue. You were brought to it as one in the gutter dreams of the stars. A way to elevate yourself out of the mire of ordinariness, to reach for glory by replacing vulgar materiality with the immateriality of the clouds. You saw Elliot in a café, once, talking to one of the girls in class, the modest measure of his voice cutting through the din simply by contrast of tone. Instead of over-extending his reach on such a complex subject as sense-certainty, he remains conservative with his claims. The immature tend to play up incomprehensibility when they speak, trying to exercise their own knowledge by stretching it to the limit; or, worse, trying to obfuscate their lack of understanding by making everything more complex, rather than trying to lay a clear base for others to build on.

"There seem to be two distinct stages of sense-certainty, but that movement doesn't happen through mediation because sense-certainty is always immediate. So based on Hegel's discussion of the This, the movement between these two stages of consciousness, at this level, seems to be a linguistic operation. At least, that's the best I can make of it."

You don't eat anything with your coffee, but make your way to work famished. Instead of nourishing yourself, you punish yourself through starvation.

"I like these terms mature and immature, because it's true that there is a movement in the section. For the moment of sheer being that sense-certainty refers to, we experience being as such, without mediation. But for consciousness to refer to that moment, there's an implied beat---a moment of duration. The fact is that time, duration in the act of pointing, is what leads to the development from immature to mature sense-certainty. It's a question of time, rather than language."

At work, you show a group to their table. The front door and the windows are open in hopes that a breeze will decide to pass through. The sun hits the terrace, but can't find its way inside. This group consists of a girl, her friend and her younger brother. All exhibit the typical behaviours of the French-from-France---but, unusually, she's dressed in sportswear and covered in tattoos. On her chest, above the line of the sports bra, you see the semi-circle of a mandala inked into her skin. The design continues below her shirt; based on what is visible, you can infer that it must cover her breasts. The erotic nature of a tattoo, which you generally do not care for, has never been more apparent.

Jules speaks, pivoting in her swivel chair in front of you so that she is parallel to the blackboard and can make sideways eye contact with you.

"I think it's important what you said about sense-certainty, because I think it gives us a way to critique the idea that the way sense-certainty falls away into something absolute---something spiritual, that could take the place of God."

The immediate knowledge apprehended by sense-certainty is as reassuring and immaterial as a dream; and as the moment of sheer being fades, and the layers of consciousness settle into place, it falls away in the manner of a dream. Is God hidden here, at the beginning of consciousness? What is the surface that the timeless moment proceeds from, if not the divine? Is it the movement of history? Or a girl's love, doomed and arbitrary respite from harsh necessity?

As you are serving her, she meets your eyes only when she wants something. You can't tell if she is projecting the aristocratic manner typical of Europeans, or if she is simply minding her own business. In either case, you can't take your eyes off her. It's not until she's leaving that she catches your eye, and you recognize in a moment yourself staring back at you. Your gaze had not gone unnoticed---nor unappreciated. She gives you a cute *salut* and she's gone, Lycra and all. When you leave work that evening, the sun is still up. You find the closest patch of grass---not easy in this part of the plateau---and kneel, facing east and a brick wall. *God's love, not a girl's.* You take out your phone and look at your reflection in the dark surface. *Jules*, you whisper for the second time that day, and wonder if it's Juliette, or Julia, or if it's just something you imagined.

As you scurry through the stinking halls after class, heading back to the slush and dark, Vera is already there to intercept you.

"I have your book. I wanted to give it back," she says softly, not looking at you. She might admit that she's afraid, but she will not admit that she's afraid of you. She reminds you of an abused housewife in a 50s melodrama. Fitting for an Italian, who you always imagine as being trapped in an arrested mid-century modernism. The cycle begins and ends with your cruelty. You can admit it---in fact, it gives you a sick satisfaction to admit it even if she won't. Seeing her averted gaze, hearing her tremulous voice reminds you of your guilt. Your guilt confirms that even a head in a jar can emit psychic energy.

"Okay," you bite off. Your thoughts are still somewhere else. What did that look Jules gave you from the corner of her eye signify? Is it possible that you saw what you think you did in the side of her face? What you don't think is: *why are you thinking about someone who is not here, rather than the person who is?* How can you trust yourself to interpret a stranger's vocabulary of gestures---all those unsaid, yet expressed and therefore half-actual emotional energies, flowing, prodding, pushing this way and that? Your entire existence remains unsaid, an invisible life. And yet, Vera is still here, trying to capture your attention and consequently afflicting you with deserved guilt.

She un-slings her backpack and pulls your copy of *Thus Spoke Zarathustra* from the top compartment. The Kaufman translation; the existentialist translation. This is your third copy of the book. The first one you bought as a teenager and kept through until your first breakup. Reading it adjacent to *On the Road* motivated you to go on your own mountain-climbing expedition---to pack a bag and start hitchhiking, riding freight trains through the South, up the west coast, and back through Canada. The subsequent copies were each purchased in the wake of a break up, when you clutched at it like a life preserver. Last year, when the leaves were turning, you returned to life after a sleepless night much like this one. Wracked with anxiety and heartbreak, you jumped out of bed as soon as the sun was up and ran to The Word. Waited out front for an hour before they opened, clutching a copy of *Repetition* to your heart. It's not the same, composed of heavy blocks of text into which young Kierkegaard's piteously relatable emotional codes are threaded. An acceptable substitute, but lacking the sibilance of Nietzsche's em-dashes and exclamation marks. There was one copy of the Kaufman translation inside: you grabbed it like a life preserver. When you would have taken the emptiness of waking, grasping for an object that you can't find. Instead, then you would wake gasping for air like a fish on the side of a boat. *Where is she? Where is He?*

The class society is dominated by a clique that you observe from behind. Jules is a *de facto* member, but you don't hold it against her. Young and consistently styled, usually arriving late, the seven talk among themselves loudly, swearing and discussing their personal lives like a performance for all of us outsiders to marvel at. You don't give them the same benefit of the doubt as you do Jules. Nothing about them interests you, and your cynicism functions well as a cushion. It's the product of overbearing candour; or, as Kant would say, an immaturity that does not heed the distinction between public and private. In youth, everything feels vital and important. Propriety is not just an impossible gulf, but an undesirable, unattractive one. There is no compartmentalization between selves because the spirit of youth is still in the process of forming a single identity, much less a bifurcated one. 

Daisy is the benevolent chieftain of the tribe. She tells you on two separate occasions that she grew up on St-Clair, near where you grew up on the East side of Toronto. The first time, it was a pleasant surprise: most Torontonians you meet are from the West end. When she repeats the same thing again as though it were still novel, evidently having forgotten your previous conversation, your judgement of her solidifies. You humour her, but can't respect anyone who shows such little respect towards you. She will chat with you during the break only when there's no-one else around. The padding of your negativity cushions you from the hurtful sense of exclusion. You dress more-or-less like the group of seven; you have the same interests---you're auditing a course on Hegel, after all, and show up more regularly than many of the students who are paying---but your status as a non-enrolled student helps you identify as the excluded outsider. They don't know anything about you, because you never speak---you don't post your Hegelian poems on the class message-board, and you don't give a presentation. Instead, as the weeks pass, you retreat further and further below the surface. Your few contributions to class discussion become more and more of a distant memory. The cynicism protects you by separating you from others---but most of all, from yourself. You alone are responsible for having such a weak personality that Daisy doesn't remember her conversations with you. Looking down your nose helps you avoid feeling bad for not being part of the in group. The boys are all more transparently arrogant and proud than you ever were at that age---except for Elliot, who does a better job than you of maintaining his status as a mysterious outsider with one foot inside, one foot outside.

One day, several weeks into class, Daisy speaks to you during the break. You scurried through the hall of the damned like a rat along the edge of Pandemonium. She accosts you where the hall narrows into a choke-point.

"Hey!"

"How's it going?" you ask reluctantly.

"Do you think we will get the reading group going again?"

"Maybe...I don't know." She's asking you because you were the host, principle contributor, and eventual disassembler of the weekly philosophical salon. It's because of your neglect that the group dissolved. On the one hand, you know that's true; on the other, it is just as much the result of their having abandoned you. No-one bothered to follow up when you stopped sending the invites. When you stopped putting in effort, it became apparent that you were the only one putting in effort to begin with, and there was no mutuality to the relation.

"Do you miss it?"

You hesitate for a moment. Part of you wants to re-bridge the divide between you, if only just to let her know that you are resentful towards her. You want her to know that she hurt you by putting no effort into a friendship that meant something to you. Now that she has pushed you out of her private life, she will only ever see your public face. A poker face, you vow, revealing nothing.

"Yes," you say. It's the truth. Now *this* is the last time you will ever give her access to your inner self. "Do you?"

"Yeah, I do."

You have little impression of Jules's body until one Tuesday evening, when you notice she's had her nails done. Weeks have passed. The snow has compressed out in the dark and the cold; everything has intensified. You notice something different. Out of the drapery of her clothing, her hands are now decorated with nails, clear, square, and purple-tipped. Your awareness moves from below-ground to above-ground, desire no longer an invisible tectonic force, but actualized on the surface of a living body. Purple is your colour. The New Tab page was girlish, but this is feminine: yes, she *is* a woman.

In the months since the end of semester, you forgot about her as much as possible. Assumed you would never see her again once school was out. Then, shockingly, you saw her at your favourite after-hours venue. It brings you back to the months you spent sitting behind her in Hegel class. Simultaneously a callback to your infernal damnation---but also a callback to when your life had meaning, briefly: hope in the potential of mutual recognition. An object that you could orient yourself around. Noticing her nails one day; noticing the way she played with her hair another. These concrete elements that stick out in your memory are less important than the story you tell yourself. The *recognition of recognition*. You see yourself reflected in her; simultaneously, you see her seeing you in her---and if you are reflected in her, then you are also mirroring her back at herself. Mutual recognition is the basis of love, whether divine or mortal.

The sun is shining on Monday morning. You give the cat a pet down his back. You wake up weak and under-recovered, but inspired---and unusually, you rise straight away. Measure the beans, grind them, pour the water, and out on the stoop with coffee in hand and sun on skin, you raise your phone to your face.

"*Jules*," you whisper into it for the third time. The screen lights up and her name appears before you. The image is a picture of a cloud in a grey-blue sky. Her avatar clarifies your impression of her. It fits, just like everything does, given that you are biased to interpret everything under the same aspect.

You click on the message icon.

*I sat behind you in Hegel class. I thought your New Tab page was cute. I saw you the other night and wanted to say hi, but it looked like you were with someone.*

Did she ever notice your dark mood, or the attention you paid towards her? Two mirrors, one dim, one bright; the first illuminated by the reflection of the second.

You press send and straighten your back. After a long winter, the sun is a powerful enticement to rise; like God, reliable, governed by immutable laws. A girl's love is a poor substitute for the eternal divine, but the promise motivates you to rise *today*, and that's good enough for right now.
