---
published: false
---

# Dracula

# Contemporary Literature

David Shields wants a Contemporary literature that parallels the aesthetics of Contemporary art. The popular characterization of the youth as deficient in attention span, and of Contemporary media in favour of brevity does not account for the *limitless* nature of our era. Instead, Contemporary literature is concerned with circumventing the machinations of plot. Creating a connection between the artist and their work---the Age of Autobiography---is perhaps more important.

When he talks more specifically about literary form, specific styles, Shields refers to autobiography / memoir, fragmentary and otherwise non-linear writing, and what we know as "creative non-fiction." He doesn't mention it directly, but it makes me think of hypermedia.

> The lyric essay asks what happens when an essay begins to behave less like an essay and more like a poem. What happens when an essayist starts imagining things, making things up, filling in blank spaces, or leaving the blanks blank? What happens when statistics, reportage, and observation in an essay are abandoned for image, emotion, expressive transformation? There are now questions being asked of facts that were never asked before. What, we ask, is a fact these days? What’s a lie, for that matter? What constitutes an “essay,” a “story,” a “poem”? What, even, is “experience”? For years writers have been responding to this slippage of facts in a variety of ways—from the fragmentary forms of L=A=N=G=U=A=G=E poetry that try to mimic this loss to the narrative-driven attempts by novelists and memoirists to smooth over the gaps. The lyric essay, on the other hand, inherits from the principal strands of nonfiction the makings of its own hybrid version of the form. It takes the subjectivity of the personal essay and the objectivity of the public essay and conflates them into a literary form that relies on both art and fact, on imagination and observation, rumination and argumentation, human faith and human perception. [@shields, p.72]

# What Is Contemporary Art?


