---
date: 2009-10-01
name: Flesh
year: 1968
letterboxd_URI: https://boxd.it/244Y
rating:
rewatch:
review:
tags:
watched_Date:
layout: post
category: film
---

Hipsters never change, it seems. FLESH was made in 1968, and appears
filled with *clichés* to my diluted cultural viewpoint. I feel like I've
seen the same brand of Tennessee Williams-influenced kitchen sink drama
a thousand times; I feel like I've heard a thousand liberal jackasses
talking about sex and the body like it's 380 B.C.E. FLESH's sense of
realism is largely the result of its independent aesthetic, with
untrained actors appearing more comfortable posing nude than delivering
lines; shots are often empty, meaningless, or uncomfortably filled with
extreme close-ups; there is unconstrained nudity and the sexual politics
harken back to Ancient Greece. All of these things have become standards
for any sort of hipster "art" (cf. Xavier Dolan); to appreciate Paul
Morrissey's film requires the effort of putting it into context and
ignoring the 21st century "free radical," whom I hate.

In context, FLESH the film is still something I am inclined to dislike:
it is an undeniably important piece of independent American film-making,
but it is also an undeniably *hip* film: it came with Andy Warhol's (as
if you don't know, the ultimate 60s underground tastemaker) name
attached; its neo-Greecian attitude towards sex, and its unembarrassed
glorification of the human body, are all reflective of the 60s
counter-cultural attitude, where repression from previous ages was
emphatically rejected and the young veered towards the opposite extreme.
Sexual freedom is a trait visible in the modern hipster, but in the 60s
it meant something; now, in the second decade of the 21st century,
nothing means anything, everything new is an echo of something old, and
youths talk the talk but can clearly be seen as unable to walk the walk.

The film's aesthetic is deliberately wrought: Paul Morrissey's has a
keen talent for taking advantage of the ultra-independent, one-man
production. That he was able to create a subtle and influential
aesthetic out of nothing is the primary timeless aspect of this film.
His ability is most prominently on display in the montage of Joe
Dallesandro ("Joe") playing with his child, which is beautiful, and
reminds me (probably without intention of Morrissey) of Michaelangelo's
depiction of God and his son.

Dallesandro is a better actor than his "co-star" Geraldine Smith
("Geri"), who plays his wife, and his presence on-screen is probably the
second timeless aspect of FLESH. He and his wife are both prostitutes in
New York City, in the 60s, selling themselves to pay for friends'
abortions. Dallesandro spends most of his time on-screen posing naked,
being caressed by men, or emaciated by his friends, and his casual
un-self-consciousness is testament to ability, while the lines he and
his wife deliver are not, sometimes sounding as though they come from
the mouths of invalids.

It is not a bad thing that Paul Morrissey made FLESH, although I view it
and its associated scene with contempt. It is a solid article
demonstrating the attitudes of a certain group at a certain time, and it
is always an honourable thing to speak well for one's peers.
