---
title: III
date: 2023-12-02
description: December 2, 2023--February 19, 2024
---

---
date: 2023-12-02
title: First Day at D
---

## Saturday {.chapter-subsection}

Work last night was intense, but good. Reminded me of the good jobs I've had. Doesn't pay as much, but it's fine. The wine list is not particularly sophisticated, but the service is at a high level so it's okay.

---
date: 2023-12-03
title: Christmas List
---

## Sunday {.chapter-subsection}

- Mom: tote, chocolate
- D--: W beers, book, chocolate
- R--: cliff bars, W beers, O shirt
- N--: socks, chocolate
- C--: Pantone mug, chocolate, record (?)
- J--: Knotty boy, McK shirt

---
date: 2023-12-04
title: First Day of Snow
---

## Monday {.chapter-subsection}

First day of snow. Suddenly the winter we were waiting for has Become. No longer just an extended spring, but *winter*---season of snow.

Today the goal is to send draft letters to all my referees; to work on the portfolio; to work at the gym at 80% of my last PR week; to shave.

---
date: 2023-12-05
title: Prayerful Insertions of the Name
---

## Tuesday {.chapter-subsection}

Sent the letters. Today is about receiving feedback from S--, and about working on the story. *Morning Regrets* has become *The Path to Self-Consciousness* (it still has both and neither title: the first is just the filename; the second is a working title, but it's not appropriate for the story's aesthetic mode). I'm still working on integrating those prayerful insertions of the name into the computer. The narrative will end at the moment of sending her a message. Wow. It should have been on Twitter, the website that I actually use; but it's more funny that I had to use an adapter to pipe my message into another communication protocol. I used Messenger to slide into the DMs of an Instagram account. Hard to convey how funny that is. You can't make that sort of thing up, so why would anyone ever bother trying to? I will never understand claims to fiction invented whole cloth.

---
date: 2023-12-07
title: Bring the Piece to the End
---

## Thursday {.chapter-subsection}

Writing and working, a very strange combo. The job is taxing my ability to memorize things. I need to remember all the recipes for the cocktails, as well as the menu. The floor plan is simple, but also needs to be memorized. And I need to remember how to do the job. That memory is in my muscles, thankfully, which are bigger than my synapses. All the language, the vocabulary. What else? Cleaning is easy; everything else is hard.

I'm writing at the same time. Tomorrow I can work on the story. Right now I work on *this* word and *this* word.

Invocation to the person I love, want to love. That's the goal. To bring the piece to the end. It needs more action.

*11h*---At O. The plan today is to work on the story and nothing else. Aside from that---we have gym in a few hours, and then---work! A structure is emerging.

---
date: 2023-12-08
title: More Spring for the Present
---

## Friday {.chapter-subsection}

A bunch of girls at CG speaking English loudly. To some extent, things have taken a turn for the better. Next step...girlfriend?!

For the story...

- Need to make the timeline more clear. More of a spring vibe for the present-day timeline; more of the glory of weather.

- How does the V-- anecdote relate to anything else in the story? How do any of the parts relate to each other? The idea is...fixating on the unobtainable, in spite of what's in front of you. I am incapable of precisely identifying what a theme is, and I don't actually think that's the writer's job, anyway. When I say, "the theme is [*whatever*]," what I am saying is "the emotional well from which this language springs has [*whatever*] affective--conceptual quality in the foreground of my mind." The artist does not identify their themes, the critic does. The artist can only say what their affective state is at the moment of conjuration.

- The last thing to do is add in the element of "praying" to the computer; entering J--'s name into the phone 3 times. It can end there. Make it happy. Or, tell the truth and don't mislead by pretending change will be enduring.

---
date: 2023-12-09
title: I Can't Devote Myself
---

## Saturday {.chapter-subsection}

Standing at the bar adjacent to the espresso machine at O, a place I've never stood before. It's typically for friends of the baristas; in this case, it's a "liminal zone," where I stand, waiting, until a better spot emerges. It does allow me to see behind the bar in a way that I definitely don't like. I don't like Contemporary pants: sweatpants with elasticated cuffs and cargo pockets---the pants people think are appropriate to wear to work. This counter ought to be strictly reserved for friends because I, the public, should not have access to this sight.

Moved up to the window. The only wobbly chair in the house. Next to the [*Frankenstein* girl](/blog#2023-10-27), who is knitting yellow yarns, a purple hardback notebook in front of her. No copy of Shelley today. According to this very diary, it was back in October that I made note of her.

Trying to read some Baudelaire, but I woke up melancholic. The thing I most want to do is stare into space.

LOL---just read an email from V-- saying she wants to have my baby, pay my student loans, support me as a writer. She also wants me to fall in love with her, make her my wife and keep her in Montréal. I won't be able to devote myself to anyone but the one I fall in love with spontaneously---with whom the early parts of the relationship are adventurous, exciting. V-- has not changed my conception of the truth.

Right now, the kinds of truths I feel driven to divulge are about being lonely and alienated; about my past, what series of unfortunate events might bring a man to the brink of despair. If I fall in love and get a girlfriend, I will want to tell *that* kind of truth. The two are (to an extent) mutually exclusive. Can't tell the truth of being single without damaging a future relationship. The truth of being lonely, self-hating, self-conscious, horny; the truth of how one falls forward into love...

---
date: 2023-12-11
title: What Does Sense-Certainty have to do With Anything?
---

## Monday {.chapter-subsection}

The story is about a guy who says the name of a girl he likes into his phone 3 times; and on the third time, her name appears.

Maybe the diversions into E--'s character are what gives you the space to get into the present. Paralepsis: find a point of commonality that is more meaningful than having the same bag, and bring that back to the present, make it into something real. Something about how different the two of you are.

What does sense-certainty have to do with anything? It's vaguely related to this idea of unconscious recognition, of the crush, Hegelian Desire. The idea is that you're thinking about it before you become aware that you're thinking about it.

The story falls apart. This dialogue on sense-certainty needs to move back and forth through time; we are listening, remembering the conversation; and at the same time we are at Reservoir, looking at the tattoo on a girl's chest, thinking about where the rest of the pattern must fall---on the *tits*! She notices you noticing her and gives a coy smile on her way out.

---
date: 2023-12-12
title: "Operation: Rescue C-- from Trinidad"
---

## Tuesday {.chapter-subsection}

Spoke to C-- yesterday afternoon. He is doing much worse. Now, going to Trinidad will have the quality of a rescue operation. Now there's a higher calling than just lounging around.

---
date: 2023-12-13
title: Power, Recognition, Presence
---

## Wednesday {.chapter-subsection}

Went to McK, felt foolish for thinking I still had a connection to the place. I wanted to give J-L one of their shirts for Christmas as a token of me, a sign of an accomplishment that I was proud of (holding down that job for about 3.5 months). The place is so massive, institutional, busy, powerful. My time there didn't make a dent, even though it made a huge dent in me. 

Walked by Hard Knox, thought about R--, put up an "I <3 Hamas" sticker. The Sud-Ouest is the lair of my enemy and I don't belong there. I felt invisible, like no-one---like no-one knows me. Zero power, zero recognition, zero presence. Doesn't help that I invited a bunch of people to the Christmas party, and few responded. Now I'm going to try to write?! It's so late in the day....

---
date: 2023-12-16
title: Christmas Party
---

## Saturday {.chapter-subsection}

- Unsalted butter
- Malted milk powder
- All-purpose flour
- Plain, unsulfured baking molasses
- Orange x 2--3
- Ground coriander
- Whole nutmeg
- Green cardomom
- Granulated sugar
- Ginger
- 750ml dry red wine x 2
- 750ml ruby port
- Raisins
- Almond slivers
- Allspice
- Phyllo

- Pinot noir, cabernet sauvignon, malbec or merlot

---
date: 2023-12-18
title: The Plan is to Chill
---

## Monday {.chapter-subsection}

Post-party. Weak. My body, but also the event itself: *weak*. I need to get my application packages together, because I'm about to lose my chance to work on them! Plus, I have no time to shop.

The plan is to chill and rest as much as possible before the work week begins tomorrow. It's going to be difficult. And I will have no chance to go anywhere. No car of my own.

In the New Year, I will return to the applications. This week I will focus on my gifts. Otherwise---what's going to happen with---anything? I'm over-reaching, doing damage to my reputation. Just by trying to exist. Stupid---chill out. It would have been better if---today, I'm just chilling until I have to go meet the person for the Pantone (®) mug, and then go to the gym. I'm getting one gift. I need to stop by Wills at some point to get beer. I can get some of that for R--. Mom gets a tote bag, and---? N-- can get some socks. D-- can get some---book?

---
date: 2023-12-21
title: Certain Themes Re-appear
---

## Thursday {.chapter-subsection}

I can sense that I'm approaching the limit of what I can accomplish with the *Morning Regrets* story without a long lay-off and/or some help from outside of me. Obviously more could be done to make it cohesive overall; certain themes that appear in the beginning need to re-appear. More could be done to make the topic of sense-certainty relevant to the rest of the story. Religion, God versus woman, love and loneliness, waking up in the morning---how it feels to be so objectless. Without meaning! Blah blah....

Aside from that, we need to just fix up the letters, remove the excess semi-colons (as S-- suggested), etc. Then we need to prepare the CV and the documents for Western.

---
date: 2023-12-24
title: Dreaming About Computers on the Train
---

## Sunday {.chapter-subsection}

On the train to Ottawa, then to Toronto. What a difference this mode of transport makes. The staff are attractive and in a good mood. The other passengers are also attractive---more so than on the bus, certainly. I can hear the gay laughter and chattering of one of the girls behind me. The bus is so angry and unhappy. I remember some of those early rideshares: they felt like world-historical events, honestly.

I feel close to getting a girl. I feel close---still thinking about the one conversation I had with that girl from PR. She's my type---what is it about her? She has an air of seriousness, yes. As ever, what makes her my type is that I believe I recognized my attraction to her reflected back at me. She knows that I think she's hot, because she presents herself as such. And there's some confidence that she thinks I'm hot, too, far-off and vaporous like a cloud.

I've seen her boyfriend. He's nothing special. Lumberjack hipster type. I'm more of an army hipster type. But I'm serious, and I have prospects, now, wow! *Two* jobs?! Maybe even grad school?! What! Not to mention---all my training! All my computers!

I want the ultimate x230. 4 core processor, full HD display. New speakers, new Bluetooth + WiFi chip, new everything inside. The display is most difficult (and expensive).

Of course I will have to flash the BIOS, coreboot, and clean the ME...I'm also looking forward to getting the new keyboard, of course, that's obvious. I wonder if there's some way to get USB-C plugs for data, or to replace all the USB 2.0 with 3.0. Of course I will want to reinforce the lid, make it stronger and more secure---less flexible. That seems to be the main concern.

And of course I want the higher-quality cooling system. Keyboard. Perfect screen. Would have to still do VGA out, have the option of attaching a second screen.

---
date: 2023-12-28
title: Double-hand-shake
---

## Thursday {.chapter-subsection}

At PR. J-- was being very touchy as he asked me about my holidays, about my family. Double handshake, laid his hand on my shoulder, and even cupped my face. I like coming here because I feel seen---but he still gave me coffee in the tiny cup---and he'll still charge me for the larger size. WTF!

What do I have to do...I need to work on my applications. For Western. I still need to figure out what my essays are even going to be, then edit them.

---
date: 2023-12-29
title: What Else Makes me Feel Bad?
---

## Friday {.chapter-subsection}

Nightmare service. So many fuck-ups.  Now I just feel terrible. At IdG for a beer. D-- has lost her respect for me...I've lost face. Will I even keep this job? Who knows. The insult added is that the stakes, the fuck-ups, are fractional compared to the past. In the past I've had real responsibility; huge groups in the palm of my hand; an international reputation to uphold....

What else makes me feel bad? In a moment of horniness, I proposed to V-- that we should take a vacation together, and now I will need to tell her that it's a bad idea---or else follow-through with it. I can't tell which is worse.

Can I finish this stupid notebook before the end of the year? I found myself at work fantasizing about A--, a girl I have met twice. Fantasizing about being her boyfriend. Sex, yes, the process of her becoming my slave. Everything I would do to her. I want a steady girl so that I can begin the process of unleashing the full force of my energy on someone---anyone. No, not anyone, sadly; the sad reality is that my pride holds me back from indulging fully in women that I don't believe are right for me. After work, yes, when it's hot out---and then we can put our feet up together....

---
date: 2024-01-03
title: Proofread All my Documents
---

## Wednesday {.chapter-subsection}

Head still swimming. Entire inner world destabilized. Went to the gym yesterday, somehow. A miracle, really. Felt quite weak on the overhead press, and generally un-co-ordinated, but I managed to do eight exercises. Four sets of dips, very long rests. One steam / cold plunge.

The house is falling apart. *Chaos reigns*. Can't think about that. I need to do a proofread on all my documents, then submit. Get it out of the way, then get some tool to unscrew the faucet and try to fix it. Then---what the fuck, it's leg day?!

---
date: 2024-01-04
title: Sick in the Nose
---

## Thursday {.chapter-subsection}

Very sore from the workout. Feel bloated and sloppy. Not taking enough time to care for my body. Not enough time for self-care. I'm here at CG, I feel sick, but it's in the nose, not the lungs. Too cold, with the window open at night. My lips are chapped. I'm not taking care of my mouth, face, skin.

Today I need to at least finish edits to [*The Truth is Haunted*](/the-truth-is-haunted) essay. I should also try to submit it somewhere because it's fucking good. With that many revisions---plus, the topic is genuinely important. The problem with this piece is that it's too academic to be an essay for a general readership; and it's not too entry-level academic to be submitted to a decent peer-reviewed journal. It needs to be either completely re-done for a general audience; or it needs to be actually filled-out, which would take like, two or three times as much space.

---
description: Gains made in the year 2023.
published: no
---

## {.chapter-subsection}

2023 was probably my most consistent year of training yet, and it marked several milestones---including my move from a strength-focused, powerlifting-style of training, to the so-called "endurance" methods associated with hypertrophy.

---
date: 2024-01-09
title: Notes from E--'s Writing Workshop
---

## Tuesday {.chapter-subsection}

- The hegemony of ASL
- Grammar of signing is on the face??
- *We the Dead* (book)
- Diagrams for when you're stuck
- Self-publishing a book
- February 6: bring some material?
- Look for motifs in the shared document?
- What paths does the writing give?
	- Are they the intention of the writer?
- A time of mediocre thinking
	- That's what has led us to Gen A; illiterate
	- My back is killing me. I did deadlifts earlier, and we don't have chairs...
	- She's bothered by a review

---
date: 2024-01-10
title: What I Should Actually Do
---

## Wednesday {.chapter-subsection}

Back at PR, caught up with my friend. Crush is not here. Good/bad? Who knows.

Now it's time for the next project. It's time for the Spinoza story. This one also has a weird timeline. We need to come up with better techniques for moving through time---we can practise, at least.

What will I read? Well, today, what I should actually do is try to put together some resources on writing workshops. That's one objective; the second is to think about where/how I can improve *The Truth is Haunted*.

---
date: 2024-01-13
title: The Story of Me
---

## Saturday {.chapter-subsection}

I'm afraid to go back to PR because the force of my attraction to that girl is just breathtaking. I want to imagine a long life together. She has a boyfriend---plus, I'm the client. Impossible to puncture the membrane; or, at least, ill-advised folly. I bet we would be happy together: I can tell that we would.

Why? She's not dissimilar to J--: they are both kind of sallow; but they both imply secret depths. They're both serious in that way. I wonder if her boyfriend is serious, or just a fling? He's not as good as me: no man is. How could he be? I am an artist, an intellectual, an athlete. I have great depth of emotion; I have lots of cool, unusual experiences; I have great integrity and sincerity. I'm fit, I have a nice face. I have very little social power. I'm shy. I'm neurotically guarded. I'm vain, narcissistic, which is why I am so prone to self-hatred. I have no life. Gymcel! Bad teeth. I'm desperate: desperate to give myself to a woman. This one seems like a good choice because---I recognize her. From where? Just from myself, you know.

The next stories to write: Spinoza story; Korlin story; the story of Me as an Artist.

---
date: 2024-01-14
title: Drunken Ramblings from the Bishop
---

## Sunday {.chapter-subsection}

Having a real drink at PR?! Funky playlist, girls with their arms showing. Did I get close with A--? Who knows---all I know is that I can't ask her out five minutes after some other guy. But---I think she's very cute; I think she thinks I'm cute---we chat well, etc; she doesn't know everybody...

Now I'm a Bishop \& Bagg. The bartender is very professional to me. I don't really invite the homely style of service. That's fine. The beer has a kind of sour taste.

The idea I had---the new idea that's pulling my heart is some kind of artist statement. That has to do with distinguishing myself from the rabble. No: it's about what it feels like to be surrounded by so much talent: it makes me feel completely pointless, anonymous. Reading Knausgaard on the page was shocking. His novels are typeset like Stephen King books---they're huge. The style is too transparent to support the kind of citation-laden writing that qualifies as Something. Every citation needs to be narrativized. That's the key, and it means that one must also be highly selective.

WTF am I on about. The question has, is, or was about whether I can somehow manage to support something like this without coming across as a huge cunt. "Ouch, my poor wounded ego, all these talented people around me."

There's got to be something! The idea was to---I'm so distracted by everything happening around me. I can't believe that there's a trivia night happening, lol. (Also, I'm now drunk.)

Okay. Artist statement. The idea was for a story about A--, basically. That's what inspired me. How it feels like to be around people who are superior to you. At least as good, but superior for existing more than you.

If we write another story about not existing, we are 2 for 1. On a definite theme here. The guy who does not exist. It's a terrible perspective for a story, but highly symptomatic of a certain type of person.

So that seems like a go-ahead. If we have 2 stories that are on a theme, then that's basically halfway to a book. That's a pretty pathetic little series: we have to find another perspectival dyad that we can use to approach---whatever the same object is.

Right now I'm writing shorter pieces. Hopefully they can all be workshopped and brought to market. Maybe together they will work. Who knows.

After that will come an actual novel. We have to do like Faulkner and just tell stories that mean something.

Of course, what I want to do is nothing like Faulkner. What other perspectives can we offer on the same thing? What is at the heart of these two stories? Modern subjectivity? The loneliness of a pathetic man?

The problem is that I don't have much of a perspective. No. Look, I have access to something---it can be what I make it---and that's that. I can make it what I want to.

Girls I am currently obsessed with: - A-- - PR - ? Not that many, I guess. Natalie. Why am I so bad, why is it so difficult to actually connect with people? What do women think? They have have their lives---they have options---they are only going for a meet-cute that falls in their lap. Or rather, with a dude that is competent enough to actually make something happen. So even if I have an undeniable connection with a girl, she won't lift a finger, or---she just won't do fuck all. And I---am too proud to be with a woman who won't respond to a connection. The only relationships worth having are the ones that are completely effortless, in a sense. Like everything in life that's worthwhile. The best way to make progress is without effort.

The other problem is that no-one really thinks like this. Are there Romantics out there? Part of me wants to say that the times have simply become too hard...but all my relationships had an element of Romance---and they weren't really that long ago. It's like I have become hard of heart. I am the one who has changed!

Met Steven, a very sharp old guy, but one who is limited by his perceptions. Met Trey, a Texan here on a mission of love. Good for him.

---
date: 2024-01-27
title: Pony Dreams
---

## Saturday {.chapter-subsection}

Sick---did fuck all this week. Today I got an email that I was accepted into the University of Western Ontario. The financing seems very generous. The guy said they were impressed---by *The Truth is Haunted*, and that dogshit throw-up from FMST 222?! Wow, LOL!

How am I going to feel if they let me into Concordia? It might kill me. WTF!! Right now, I am avoiding going home, because it's full of people. Strangers. Scared. I met a girl, sort of---she was so nice! Sometimes I feel like an absolute piece of shit. I'm terrible at my job. I am going to work in a restaurant forever---I should be so lucky! 2 jobs, full time...if I ever am married, then my motivation to work in restauration will be gone.

The grass is always greener---elsewhere. If I go to UWO, then I will have FOMO from not being here. If I go to Concordia, then I will always wonder---what might have been.

That girl---has a shop; and she has an old, blind greyhound. She's a local celebrity. She's funny, she's cool, she's really nice to service staff. She likes her funky natural wines. She addresses me in English. Wow. Radiant energy. Red carpet vibes. Powerful---so what's she doing with me? Nothing: it was all a dream...

---
date: 2024-01-28
title: My Mind is Empty
---

## Sunday {.chapter-subsection}

The one girl is too young; the other is too powerful.

Now at Bishop \& Bagg. It's quite a privilege to be meeting a woman, even if she's "merely" a friend. Have to remain normal.

Tomorrow, the plan is to---wake up at 8am and walk downtown to the thing. After, go to HOJO to meet the lady. Then go to the gallery, then go to work at the gallery---then go to the gym and do the full-body day. And of course I have to read like 40 pages of Holderlin, or whatever.

My mind is empty right now, other than the stupid anxiety of whether or not my friend is actually going to make it. The whole thing is BS. But it's the price I pay for her friendship, I guess---the anxiety of not knowing whether she can follow through. She's still very powerful. But what else...

---
date: 2024-01-29
title: The Narrative Repeats, but Differently
---

## Monday {.chapter-subsection}

The newsletter project should have an automated ("AI") component. The narrative is frozen in time, repeats from one year to the next, but modified.

---
date: 2024-02-01
title: The Weird Opening
---

## Thursday {.chapter-subsection}

1. There's nothing connecting the "weird" opening [of the Thanksgiving piece] to the rest of it.

2. The actual "narrative" part with the natives is unbelievably half-assed. Make him a real character, and give some more details of their travels.

3. The giving of thanks could be better integrated.

4. All the descriptions of nature, etc need to be expanded or integrated. What's the point, exactly?

This girl next to me is unhappy that she will never be able to compete as a bodybuilder.

---
date: 2024-02-03
title: New Notebook
---

## Saturday {.chapter-subsection}

New notebook, new occasion to complain about how lonely and sad I am.

I want to think about the polyamory story. The question is---how to begin. I want to stay in my POV, but in such a way that I can fully inhabit the mind of the secondary main character.

The point is to show how my experiences as a guy doing polyamory/open relationships reveals that the whole pursuit is vanity, insanity, hubris. It works, or advantages, the man, just not this one.

The temporal framing is also important. That thing with E-- and N-- happened at the onset of the Online Dating Age; it also happened when millennials were the youth culture---the Young Ones. Now we are in a different place. Ostensibly mature, with different interests.

What scene am I most interested in? What drives me? It's not just a question of reliving my "glory days"---this story has a real pedagogical interest.

No matter what, we don't begin with me. We begin in the present. The trivia night is a good setting because of how over-the-top geared towards millennials it is, with the questions and the music, LOL!

Opening with A-- is a good idea. Sets the tone---and the theme. Establishes some important character traits that will be important later on...but we want to get to the point of D-- giving her speech, telling her story, ASAP. That's the first major incident. The inciting incident? Where we get the first taste of our theme---strategies one how to love. Sexual differences.

Next, after that, is D-- telling her story. A friend's suicide, her boyfriend making out with another girl at her home. Sick and twisted. She tells her whole story, including mimicking his voice, etc; and only after, through my candour, do we learn that she is pretty much entirely responsible for her own situation. She made the bed that she's unhappily lying in.

At that point---maybe we mirror her story by having me tell my own story; and that's how we frame the analepsis.

The problem is that my whole story is too long. We need to settle on a particular scene that is capable of representing everything. It's probably the conversation I had with E--, where she gamed it out and concluded that open relationships don't work---they are a sacrifice: you can only be with people who are themselves into open relationships, which is a terrible punishment. It means that you can't be open to the spontaneity of true love---the two are incompatible.

But another key thing is to describe N--'s psychology, and her entire rationale for why she thought it would be a good idea. Which is that, when she was 16, she and her best friend fucked the same guy---and to her, that's being in an open relationship. That's polyamory, LOL!

Key to that dynamic between her and I, how it played out, is that I somehow managed to find myself with E--, who is a AAA quality human being. No shitmuncher; not basic; my "superhero," in fact. While N-- is reading to me from her diary about how she's fucking some random off of Tinder who rolls over and starts playing video games...E-- and I had a true meet-cute, not to mention a courtship.

---
date: 2024-02-05
title: Large Yellow Onion
---

## Monday {.chapter-subsection}

- Celery
- Pepper
- Chicken
- Carrots
- Parsley
- Green onion
- 3.5 lbs russet potatoes
- Red onion
- Banana
- Large yellow onion
- Tomato paste
- Garlic

---
date: 2024-02-09
title: Bret Easton Ellis, but Consensual
---

## Friday {.chapter-subsection}

I have this feeling of being emotional, but not knowing why. Is it truly sourceless---or am I guilty about not going to the gallery? Or do I feel bad because I had to contact R--? Or is it lingering food poisoning? What do I want to do, really? Just walk forever? It's so nice out, after all...maybe I should just---go for a walk on the mountain. What else do I have to do in this shitty life...February, lonely. Or---just shoot me. D-- is very annoying, and her callousness hurts my feelings.

Despite a series of successes in the new year that I can't deny, I still feel---very empty. Unchanged. Like a failure, essentially. My fear is that I will need to fully wallow in happiness before I can actually be happy---before I stop thinking about how nice the other lawn is. How green. How beautiful is the other woman. If happiness is a treadmill, my heart-rate has not really been raised quite yet. This is the kind of emotionality we need to bring to the poly story---it will only, or rather, it is conceptually about economism of emotions. Gameification. What is going to be most efficient, what will get me results most quickly. The most bang for my buck.

Ultimately, yes, the story is about trying to find love. But it's a corrupted sort of love. It's corrupted by all the trappings of modern society---everything that is designed to lead us astray. To corrupt our minds.

What are the scenes? What scenes do my life depend on? Meeting Eric at Casa, and then later on he says I'm gay.

Tinder is first invented. Using it at O--'s mom's condo on King Street. Rob has already developed one strategy of being selective, while J-- has developed the opposite strategy of being indiscriminate.

N-- and her friend fucking the same greasy guy; convincing herself that she's poly as a form of cope, while he's laughing all the way to the pussy bank.

Developing a romance with E-- as N-- winds up regretfully fucking some gamer. Ha, ha, I win. And she met him online, too.

My loyalty to N-- leads to the downfall of my relationship with E--: the desire to have-cake-and-eat-it leads to nothing. She called it, too. You are restricting yourself to a subset of the population, the men of which are typically some of its worst specimens.

D-- and the post-*Ethical Slut*. "Ethical non-monogamy."

First there is her "sado-masochistic" relationship with Yas, so hilariously mis-named. Again, a man is laughing on his way to the pussy bank while a woman is doing emotional labour. The key to this is her telling herself that the relationship is of a certain type, while he nods along, uncomprehendingly.

Then, there is the way she poisoned the well with Eric by trying to enforce this stupid ENM standard---a mirror of what happened with E-- and I? Except that she was a far more high-quality individual than he is. And he and I as the men in the situation, both had a lot more to lose.

The scene of their final breakup, with the dead friend, the make-out with the other woman at D's place, etc---all very perverse. Like a consensual Bret Easton Ellis story.

---
date: 2024-02-10
title: Notes on the Gamification of Love
---

## Saturday {.chapter-subsection}

Surprised to be greeted by name at the PR cafe. Funny that this cute young girl I see at the gym, with the SLEEP shirt, now walks in. Everyone both lives in the neighbourhood, and hangs out here. She's very stylishly attired, and with a very cute, fey boy. The milk in this cappuccino is making me nauseous. I like how every accoutrement here is on theme---that's how I need to do my place. Pick a theme, make sure all the colours match. Re-do the floors.

So far, two scenes in the POLY story: going to Bishop and gabbing with D--. Then, also, using Tinder for the first time with the boys. 2012.

Using the Bishop scene to anchor the flashbacks is a good idea, but how do we go back to Tinder? What function does that story serve? Mostly to (a) date things; (b) to indicate how different things were at the outset, versus the present of online dating; and (c) to talk about how the gamification of these systems was a social inevitability from the outset.

We have to set up the whole thing with N. in order to really get into the poly aspects of the whole thing. We have to set up the intensity of the romance; but we also want to skip a lot of the blowback, because it's too much to get into.

The three pivotal scenes: (1) first kiss, where she says she doesn't want to be exclusive; (2) the intensity of our reunion in New Brunswick, where she then talks about wanting to have sex with some guy; (3) the break-up and reunion; me meeting E--, then her reading me a literal diary entry where she describes having sex with some guy who picked her up---feeling excited by the thought of the pain she would cause me---and then he rolls over and starts playing a video game.

The Campbellton interlude should include a moment of---well, the scene around the fire truck. I ask her why she wants to be poly, why she thinks it's a good idea. She tells me the story back in Chicago. Under the tree. But she also rationalizes it---it's based on wanting to economize on her sexuality.

This recurrent theme of gamification is like the faith versus Enlightenment debate. Quantity versus quality.

We then go into the time with E--. Must do her honour, but the only scenes I have in mind are (1) the meeting---the TRUTH of the meeting; and (2) the scene at O, where she's crying and telling me how the whole things is insanity. This should be the middle of the story, where the themes are spelled out and the stakes made clear.

The question, of course, is how to connect all these scenes. How do we anchor them around the meeting at Bishop? Not everything can be a story told? Why would I be telling D-- all these stupid anecdotes from my "glory years"? It doesn't fit. She would never sit still for a story that long. I would never seek to tell her all of these details...

And that means we need as many stories, scenes, from her perspective as from mine. We want this story to be more-or-less equal---gender parity---to represent a POV different from my own. It's a technical exercise. A level-up. And it's part of the same series as *The Path to Self-Consciousness*---there's a continuity somewhere.

It's not going to be balanced if all of her stories are from the present, and I'm the only one allowed to have a backstory. Or maybe that asymmetry can be part of the work? Since I have nothing happening in the present---and she has everything happening, and seems incapable of learning.

Science versus faith. Gamification of love. I can talk to her more about---what? If she's ever been in an open relationship before?

---
date: 2024-02-11
title: Increasing the Odds
---

## Sunday {.chapter-subsection}

Failed to ask out A-- again---spoke to the guys at PR about it a bit, and had a beer---now back to just being alone, I guess? *Comme toujours*.

It's a question of chance---luck---which means my best bet is to simply increase my chances---increase my odds---that's all I can do. Yes there is an element of chance, but as the Agent of Law (the man), it is also on me to make things happen. My responsibility is to make the world conform to a vision. It's all on me---poor little pond scum.

---
date: 2024-02-16
title: What I Gave Up for Lent
---

## Friday {.chapter-subsection}

Saw C-- leaving with some man on Valentine's Day. Then, later heard them fucking; then, he left at the same time as me, early in the morning! REJECTED! (Me not him.) Feels bad. It makes me feel worthless, in fact. I am a piece of garbage. She's not interested in me. No woman is. They're just not interested. How did I ever manage to score a woman---any of those times I did? I fooled them, perhaps. Now I'm damaged goods. There's no hope for me. I can't be with anyone. I'm a pathetic loser. I will never be happy. I'm broken.

LATER---Feels like a punishment to be sent home early. And without my dinner!

Try to put yourself in the mind of a woman. They want to not waste their time---and they want to feel safe. They feel safe by knowing that you are a part of a network---and knowing that they are part of *your* network.

For Lent, I have given up. I'm not supposed to be trying. Satan tempts me at every turn. There are demons everywhere.

This place (*Isle de Garde*) is big, powerful, French, and quality. I would hold it up as a gold standard---well, I would if I were an ambassador of Québec. There are couples everywhere---it's all I see---like the whole world is people fucking---everyone but me!

Women want to know all of these things about men---but all of these things are not me. All these things they want are not things I have to offer. I'm not fit---I don't have what it takes---I'm pond scum---I deserve to be alone...

I have given up for Lent. I have given up. Failure. Bad news comes in threes: I"m still waiting for the curb stomp. Do not write a letter to E--. It's impossible to justify.

How did I become such an incel? I was always this way, and it's only chance that has led me to taste the non-incel life. Pure chance---this is the life that I am led to. That I am meant for.

Do not compromise your values for this bullshit. Never had to in the past. Look at me through a woman's eyes: he's at a bar, so he has at least some money. He's at this bar, so he has some taste...but he's alone, so he has no friends, or he's a loner; and he's writing in a notebook rather than looking at his phone. This is the extent of his plan. No plans---no friends---loser! Sad, pathetic loser.

When I look around---it's just happy people enjoying each other's company. All of them seem rapt. I have never been in such a situation. Is it true that this writing is a substitute for companionship? It is true that I did not write so much when I was in a relationship---but I also didn't have the clarity of purpose.

But---I also didn't have the emotional motivation. This is part of God's plan. I must suffer before I can become who I am. I will go through this phase of extreme emotional motivation---then, I will come out the other side a seasoned pro---then, I will be ready to love. That means I need to finish this cycle of negative thinking.

---
date: 2024-02-19
title: A Pretty Girl Laughs
---

## Monday {.chapter-subsection}

Nothing to look forward to. No meaning. No life. No future. Only memories. Circling the drain. No prospect of happiness. I feel happy when I make a pretty girl laugh. It makes me feel whole again. The best part of my week is Sunday, when I have the chance to make a pretty girl laugh.

I have become hyperfixated. It's now actually destroying me, and it will continue to destroy me until it's over and done with. Until I quit, or until I am released from this mortal coil...Another parasocial relationship sucking my blood, killing me, destroying me, draining my life-force.
