---
title: I
date: 2023-09-01
description: September 1--October 13, 2023
---

---
date: 2023-09-01
title: A Home for Wayward Boys
---

## Friday {.chapter-subsection}

A home for wayward boys, but the plot of land it's on emits a permanent stink....

My sister goes out and knows everyone. I go out and am surrounded by a vague recognition.

A girl I once made conversation with now looks away from me. I look bad, clothed in rags. I smell bad: my pheromones are rank. My aura radiates invisible stink lines.

---
date: 2023-09-03
title: Chasing Numbers
---

## Sunday {.chapter-subsection}

Apply at Concordia. Send pitches for the Wolfgang review. Read Gravity's Rainbow. Read Hegel. Go to the gym. Try to think about how we're going to make the money work. Apply for a few more jobs.

And at what point during all of this will I find a wife? How can I measure progress there? Instead, I sublimate my desire into the gym, into the writing. If I can't be happy, at least I can be a jacked artist. I want to press a plate overhead and publish a novel.

---
date: 2023-09-05
title: E--'s First Class of the Semester
---

## Tuesday {.chapter-subsection}

In the VA lunchroom before E--'s first class of the semester. Lights low, plastic furniture, quiet, only a few scared-looking art students with their heads down. I feel anxious about riding the inspiration of the APCON piece. I can't lose momentum. I need to be sending out pitches---multiple every day; for the Wolfgang review, for whatever. Publish it anywhere, so long as it's somewhere (other than here).

We need to finish *Morning Regrets*. It needs to be an actual story. That means an ending, which means *change*.

*Later*---In a strange room, next to the queen mother (E--), who I have not seen in some time: it feels very overwhelming. I wonder if I belong here, but based on how many other guys there are, the answer seems to be yes.

---
date: 2023-09-08
title: On the *via negativa*
---

## Friday {.chapter-subsection}

My goal right now is to respond to V--'s email, and to send the pitch to at least one more magazine.

Can't do the latter. Difficult enough to do the former. Too distracted by thoughts of girls and love. I am not available to women. They don't know about me. I am not there. No-one cares. And they're right not to, because I'm fucking ugly. I have no friends. Loser---no-one wants you, no-one ever will.

The goal for this weekend is to pitch the Wolfgang review to at least 3 places. Emails to be sent out on Monday. Start pitching it indiscriminately: a 1k word column. Something short, funny, sassy, that people will want to read. Just 1000 words.

*Just before 16h*---Everything is futile. I have zero prospects. Nothing but sadness, loneliness. Life of the modern gymcel. Life of the modern man. I should go back to l'E and tell that girl the truth: that I liked the look in her eyes. I liked the way they flashed in that brief ellipsis between dodging drunks.

*'Round midnight*---Maybe if I wore more tonal outfits, like the cowboy white-hat on the couch opposite me here at CDP. Maybe if I had bigger side delts someone would love me. Maybe if I had used sunscreen in the morning for the past ten years, and my face were not so wrinkled; maybe If I were just one degree higher in my profession. Maybe if I had finished that third reading of the *Phenomenology of Spirit* I would have a girlfriend.

Is ogling women in the street or at work really better or worse than using an app? Infinite possibilities emerge out of the city. The café is *here*---I'm at one right now. Apps are an added layer of mediation. We approach closest to God through reduction (*via negativa*). For a communist utopia to become actual, it similarly will require reduction (de-growth communism), not least being the abolition of class. More importantly, a wife will be found by removing everything else in life until only she remains.

Saw E-- last week; saw J-- and her Lil' Peep boyfriend today. Next time, it will be C-- ---or more likely, R--. Maybe A-- is back in town. I saw M--'s face floating in the crowd of a street festival. I haven't seen her in years, but her memory returned immediately. The city's mysteries conspire with memory and confirm the purposiveness of life.

When I saw M--'s face floating in the crowd, I felt like I could love her. I formed an attachment when I was still naive, and I'm holding on to it. She has a connection to the earth, I have a watery depth. *We are both graves to each other*.

*Later, in front of La Rama around 2am*---What is the idea with all this writing? Nothing else to do...The taste of tequila is still on my lips, stronger than this nice beer I have.

One thing: I learned the girl from l'E's name. *L--*. That never would have happened if D-- hadn't been there. If not for her---well, we know I would not have been able to ask. But I did have the opportunity to learn, and learn I did: her boyfriend is a 40-year-old rockstar.

Describe her: L--, bartender and "technical director" at l'E. Loose cuff on synthetic black pants; cheap, beat up running shoes. Smiling and homely, habituated to the city's night-life but resolute and strong in spite of it. The most classically feminine element of her appearance is the hair. Long, wavy, down past the shoulders, the ends holding on to the remains of blonde.

---
title: "On the Occasion of Checking my Inbox, or, Why Phones Aren't Allowed at Work"
description: "Writing Prompt: Description, adjacent"
tags:
  - "ASEM 2023"
date: 2023-09-19
---

## Tuesday {.chapter-subsection}

Sometimes one can be so drawn into the pleasure of their sensing-body that we might be mistaken to lapse into idyll, for it is then that Life will remind you of your own facticity. The scorching ray of an all-seeing eye falls on you, and you are brought crashing into an outline of yourself. Who we have been anchors us, a Protestant fetter that privileges one to carry it to this day.

We might disagree on the nature of organism and its connection to *cogito*, but we all agree on disliking being interpellated. In the course of a life, we grow an avatar that connects to the web on our behalf; and if we fail to repay our debts, it is the solemn duty of the creditor to stick pins through our hollow joints, sending bolts of screaming blue out of the interface. Sometimes we might lapse into idyll, and need to be reminded of our own facticity. The iron edifice of fiduciary obligation. 

There's no more rude reminder of our contingency than through manipulation of this *post hoc* self. Debt hangs like an alien spectre that phases into the corporeal when you require discipline. A creature of the imagination, yet with the power to turn one's vision black with pain from nowhere. *Don't make me do it. I don't like it any more than you do.* The trace of the way we lived in the world; who we are, best understood as *that which we are no longer*. A tether to the past, an Albatross, but---let's be honest: have we really changed? Aren't we still the same desperate phylum scrabbling for survival, borrowing money without a plan for how to pay it back from someone whose memory is liable to split our mind's dioptre? 

Remember? Remember? Still there, out of sight but adjacent, still in the same world as you.

*hello*

---
date: 2023-09-20
title: Moving Back and Forth
---

## Wednesday {.chapter-subsection}

Going into work feels like shit. I have precious few minutes left. It feels like stepping into an alternate reality. I'm not good at moving back and forth, especially when I have low commitment. Maybe that's what valuable in this job: I can be who I want to be; or, who I am: *non-committal*. But that's not who I am! I want to be outgoing, friendly, hilarious...it's just hard when you're always alone.

---
date: 2023-09-24
title: An Impossibly Remote Possibility
---

## Sunday {.chapter-subsection}

Felt terrible on Friday night when I learned that F-- made out with the blonde who is always there. Felt like no such thing could ever happen to me. He has a girlfriend, and his girlfriend is also his landlord. He's on Easy Street.

Then I woke up too early, went to work tired, barely tried. Minimal effort because nothing matters, I don't do fuck all.

I remember a dream where my bike was stolen.

---
date: 2023-09-30
title: First Memory of Forming Words
---

## Saturday {.chapter-subsection}

Idea for a portfolio piece: a short work, almost like a chant, all rhythm, mostly questions. Give it some form, but its function is to list everything I know, everything I've ever wanted to learn, everything I've ever asked myself. Give it a kind of chronology, make it also a story of coming-of-age. The questions compound. Start with writing Jack and the Bean-stalk in kindergarten (first memory of forming words); then copying out *Narnia*; then writing stories and poems to express my sex- and power-fantasies. The poem I wrote about 9/11: *The Usurpers*. Then the unleashing of imagination, in the form of both writing and reading. Musical father, visual mother. Both proletariat. Became a philosopher all on my own. Make the reader feel how it felt to be on the outside.

---
date: 2023-10-04
title: Insufficient Funds II
---

## Wednesday {.chapter-subsection}

The second (?) time this year I had a transaction declined for insufficient funds. I like that it's a "coffee bar" here [PR]. Has the same set-up as a bar, although I will say that this shade of green is not a pastel....

What else? There's something---to work on...SSHRC, school applications...the first ones are in December. And we also need to work on the APCON essay. Need to start that this week. What do we have? THANKSGIVING, and therefore Indigenous--Settler relations; but also---cosmologies? Truth and reconciliation? That's related to ideas of power, which is another element of the CFP.

There are too many beautiful women here, with too much skin showing. It's hot out today. Mini-heat wave. I overdressed. This is not even to mention the nipples through cheap tank tops.

---
date: 2023-10-06
title: The Rain Theory
---

## Friday {.chapter-subsection}

What are we going to research for the APCON piece?

- Epicurus is the rain guy
- Who's the Eternal Return guy? We studied this in Falcone's class. I can't immediately recall because I'm a sub-par student. In a way, it's like learning math: a useful exercise for the brain, more efficient if you can do the operation internally, but ultimately no big deal thanks to the technology of the calculator / the Stanford encyclopedia.
- Who are we going to cite for the indigenous cosmologies? Leanne Simpson? What do these cosmologies even consist of?

The third is supposed to relate to process philosophy. It's a vision of life as inter-connected movement.

*The encounter with M-- happens here.*

---
date: 2023-10-07
title: What's Happening With M--
---

## Saturday {.chapter-subsection}

What's happening with M--? I felt bad right away, and now I'm worried. My reflex is to fear that she's going to fall in love. I am positively sick with self-loathing, but egotism is another mutation from the same narcissistic seed.

I keep getting picked up---picked up off the street like a piece of trash---; I am "husband material," as F-- put it. I'm easy---"the town bicycle," as A-- once put it. Why can't I say *no* to someone? I'm afraid to hurt their feelings.

Sitting here like a toad. What would current and former friend C-- or A-- do? The latter is not a role model; the former is like a different species to me.

Woman need to learn how to decline offers of sex at some ungodly age. The world threatens, and they need to in order to survive. Whereas for me, for men, it's an offer---something I want and which involves some degree of struggle to obtain.

If I were responsible, I would not have engaged with her to begin with, but she was really fun and I'm hard up. I'm not good at pursuing women I have an actual interest in.

Now I will tell her how much I liked her flirting, her attention, and that we are not right for each other and we will not know each other again...

---
date: 2023-10-08
title: Windows Closed, Dust Inside
---

## Sunday {.chapter-subsection}

Put off seeing M--. Woke up around 10 with a heavily congested nose. Windows closed, dust inside. Dozed for another hour....then went to the cafe on Mont-Royal and Clark. One coffee not enough. Beauty everywhere. Fuck it.

For the University of Western Ontario, I'm supposed to submit two academic essays. The first can be my final for the hauntology class, [on the uncanny and phantasmagoria](/the-truth-is-haunted). It needs to be revised, which will feel good because it's profound (for me). I've put a lot of work into it, so it must be good-ish. I know I can make it much better. The challenge will be to integrate more Hegel, but I'm not sure if I can do that in a way appropriate to an academic context. The best strategy for now is to keep him in the background. It's not an essay on Hegel, after all.

[The above entry was written at R between 14h--15h. I was scheduled for 14h, but there was not enough work so I sat around for an hour before I walked out and did not return.]

---
date: 2023-10-09
title: "*Action de Grâce*"
---

## Monday {.chapter-subsection}

Slept on the couch because too depressed to go to bed. Only left the house late. How am I going to find a new job? Don't have what it takes to go out looking. I don't have what it takes to go on. *You must go on. I can't go on. I'll go on.* I deserve something better: I deserve a job that doesn't make me want to kill myself. Nothing has gotten better. My opportunities have only diminished.

All alone on the *action de grâce*. What should I be thankful for?

- Fit, strong, muscular, as I worked hard to achieve
- Face is fine
- Apartment
- Good cat, healthy and sweet
- Hair
- Tall end of average height
- Friends who are nice to me, and with whom I mostly like to spend time. They'll be gone now that I no longer work there.

---
date: 2023-10-10
title: A Red Sign
---

## Tuesday {.chapter-subsection}

Ile Flotante, Fleurs & Cadeaux, Boxermans, Le plongeoir, Pichai.

*At the gym*---Sometimes an old crush passes in front of the mirror---behind you but invisible like a spectre.

I thought the fact that my bandanna and her hair were both red was enough of a sign. It wasn't.

---
date: 2023-10-11
title: What my Voice Reveals
---

## Wednesday {.chapter-subsection}

When I gave my order to the Olimpi-bro, I could feel the girl in front of me's surprise. My voice reveals something that my visage doesn't. Inwardness, infinite inwardness.

- Roseline: 17h
- Buvette chez Simone: 16h
- Taverne Atlantic: 16h
- Pichai: 17h
- Harricana: 12h
- Fleurs & Cadeaux: 17h
- Ile flottante: 17h

*Later, at Bishop*---These diary entries are something, but I will often just skip over a description of the most important events of my life. I need more description of the world outside myself.

Right now I am sitting at Bishop \& Bagg, 1.5 pints deep. I've just finished sending emails to V-- and C--. The first, an apology, as well as an attempt at eroticism. Asked what she likes; tried to get explicit, to use a few of the magic words.

---
date: 2023-10-13
title: Palestine News
---

## Friday {.chapter-subsection}

Pulled into a sickening loop with Palestine news. Pulled into posting in a manner that is unbecoming because of how pointless it is.

What should I be working on? The writing prompt for this week is "beyond critique."

- Thanksgiving Essay
- *Morning Regrets*
- Beneath Language
- MA applications
