---
title: II
date: 2023-10-14
description: October 14--November 29, 2023
---

---
date: 2023-10-14
title: Girls at O
---

## Saturday {.chapter-subsection}

I should be putting skin on the bricks when I'm applying for these jobs, but my shoes are too uncomfortable. In my 20s I had a lot of promise because I came from nothing. Now in my 30s, the expectation is that I would have built on that experience. I'm building on salted earth.

The guy at the rally yesterday said "I love you even more [for carrying the Irish flag]," implying that he already loved me just for being there. I felt solidity coming from the Irish identity---even if I am truly just an imposter hiding under cover of whiteness.

Beautiful women surround me at this cafe. The one to my right is French, here with her boyfriend. Beyond her is a British blonde with a Trader Joe's tote. A classic sign of West Coast Americana. It should be Sainsbury's. When I heard her accent, I thought she was having a laugh because of how much she sounds like Michael Caine.

To my left is a girl studying theology. Can't tell if it's her or the other one sending voice memos. Must be a crush---I can't imagine doing that with a casual friend---except that I have done it with C--...and J-- leaves me voicemail. I've never understood why. It's intimate, yet child-like, uselessly sending fragments of our voice. A telephone call has the normalcy of conversation. A conversation broken into pieces has a verisimilitude like photography. And an intimacy like photography.

K-- talks to me. Last time, he sent me a photo of myself but did not address me. Exactly like a serial killer---and yet, I can relate to it. This time he was doing some fake Italian posture (he's Portuguese, if it's the same). He doesn't "appreciate" me or my flakiness. Calls me a flake to my face. Says it ended "weirdly." I repeat his words back at him.

"Weird is a nice way of putting it," he says, at a loss for what to say. I don't have the spine to do freelance work; what's more, I hate doing "knowledge work" more than anything. I am a flake of dust who would love to be "weird."

I should send him what I have. It's the least I could do, and I did a good job up until I could not be bothered. I feel like I just got beat up.

---
date: 2023-10-15
title: The Most Popular Haircut
---

## Sunday {.chapter-subsection}

Crazy night last night with D-- and M--. We went to...oh, there goes my focus...Back at the green bar. Fired. No job, no obligations, nothing to do but sit around in this cafe. I should be applying for jobs, of course, at every single moment of existence wherein I am not employed, but...my brain is too fuzzy to come up with an original phrase. I'm just repeating the same thing over and over.

The clientele here are more professional, yuppie types than at O, where it's all neighbourhood bros and students. It's not as comfortable to sit at this bar because the small space creates a pressure to leave. The window at O is my favourite place to sit. A view of the neighbourhood, surrounded by beautiful women. Here, I can see the same platinum blonde that works at SC, who does her hip thrusts in the morning at the Y. D-- is like my sister, one of those people who, on a night out, stops and talks to everyone along the way. I know a few people---at the buvette last night, I remembered the name of an old colleague from L. I really appreciate him asking me my name. It was more respectful than not bothering.

---
date: 2023-10-17
title: I Must Cut Down the Narrative of my Body
---

## Tuesday {.chapter-subsection}

In the *Beneath Language* story, all the work around "adjacency" needs to be cut out. There might be something there, since I'm trying to describe the adjacency of my body---being around people, but separate with them as an important aspect of the narrative of my body. Like when I would go to the library at Concordia, sit down at those desks next to 5000 other students, all of us simultaneously pigs at the trough and little workers in the machine; and I would repeat Kierkegaard's maxim to *stand apart inwardly*. It's okay to line up like just another peon, because inside of me a beautiful soul is glowing.

Somehow, this afternoon coffee has made me feel worse.

---
date: 2023-10-18
title: Nothing is an Excuse for Writing
---

## Wednesday {.chapter-subsection}

Woke up sick and sneezing. No energy, no motivation. Felt like I got everything out yesterday: enough of an effort with the writing for class, with the job interview, meeting up with D--, etc that I am excused in a break. A job interview justifies my break in looking for a job; the writing justifies my break from writing; being sick justifies not going to the gym.

Nothing is an excuse for not writing. If I lost it, I would evaporate.

V-- compared me to the Seducer in Kierkegaard's *Diary of a Seducer*. 

> **From**: V--
>
> **Sent**: Mon, 16 Oct 2023 at 19:20
>
> *(no subject)*
>
> Another concern, sometimes I have the impression you want to develop a science of women. Experiments, technical skills. I used to be worried that the correspondance was just a technical exercise where you got to explore your writing skills finalized to your personal project. Are you experimenting with me a method, a technique, a skill that you plan to replicate and apply elsewhere, in the context of the science you are developing? Should I take the hint that you plan to treat me as an experiment? Notice that's the very exploitative logic of your enemy.

The possibility of *naive love* is over: that's what I lost with R--. I peaked, and it's all downhill from here.

What else? Not much, dear diary. I need to get my nutrients in.

- garlic
- parsley
- celery
- thyme
- milk
- coconut water
- green tea

---
date: 2023-10-22
title: Notes on Mounds
---

## Sunday {.chapter-subsection}

This cafe life I've forced myself into is gruelling. Sometimes I have zero appetite for talking; and yet, I love a cup of coffee. Hot, bitter, mellowed-out to a nice tan with some milk.

Can I get away with using Glissant as the source of my Indigenous cosmology?

- Mound Builders
- Architecture as cosmology?
- Architecture is more metaphysical than the other media?

If we are discuss Indigenous philosophy, we should also discuss written versus oral language. For Glissant, this is at the heart of colonial conflict. *Nomadic* versus *arrow-like* reason.

Monuments facilitate inter/intra-tribal social/economic/ideological organization. They are sites of liturgy (public ritual). They use ad-hoc standardized models that are easy to understand across tribal cultures. Their construction depends on a degree of co-operation that implies federated layers of micro- and macro-societies.

These monuments are ritual sites that hold sacred objects; but they're also pragmatic, functioning as food caches and landmarks. People lived on-site (sometimes). The monuments mark local resources, and people were expected to regularly return to the site.

---
date: 2023-10-24
title: Immanent Critique of *The Exorcist III*
---

## Tuesday {.chapter-subsection}

In Erin's class, we were assigned to do an "immanent critique." I watched *The Exorcist III* that week and tried to do an immanent critique of that film. It's not very good. Following A.S. Hamrah's advice, I typically do not summarize plot or give easily-accessible information about the film (I'm not a columnist in a newspaper, but a writer on the internet, where all information is parallel). For whatever reason, I did the opposite here. Typically when I write about a film---which I have a lot of experience doing---I talk about the latent motivations of the filmmaker, what the narrative represents; I try to point out striking examples where we can see formal or narrative elements revealing the film's underlying motivation. Movies are carefully-engineered weapons whose interests are, ultimately, against our own; we should exercise great caution when dealing with them, and seek to understand the precise manner in which the movie has been designed to corrupt us. What follows is an attempt to write about *The Exorcist III* (like everything on this website, this is a piece that I return to often).

***

So much is left unsaid in the film. Most of the horrible killings happen off-screen, for example. But if I say that it's "more" or "less" of anything, then I am comparing it to other things and being *insufficiently immanent*.

The plot follows a police lieutenant investigating a series of murders that are being attributed to the "Gemini killer," a serial murderer already caught and executed years ago. The priest who jumps out the window in the first *Exorcist* film is now played by the original actor, and a new guy. In his new guise, the priest claims responsibility for the new murders---despite being locked up in a rubber room and wearing a straight-jacket. The face of the original priest appears at the film's climax.

The film opens with a dream-like murder of a young black boy. He is found in a church decapitated, with silver ingots driven through his eyes. Our protagonist is at the end of his rope. He's too old and unhealthy-looking for such an active role. He's constantly losing his temper, screaming at random characters who intrude into the film's scenes. The film is filled with shouting and unexpected bursts of stress.

In the final scene, a priest tries to perform an exorcism on the man in the padded room. His Bible is torn to pieces by an invisible presence and he is flung upward and pressed against the ceiling. His skin and flesh stick to the padded surface, peeling away to reveal the striations of muscle underneath.

The cop bursts in, revolver drawn. He doesn't see the priest bleeding in the corner, and instead confronts the killer, who keeps referring to himself in the plural. He wants to make our hero "believe."

Pinned to the wall by the Gemini Killer's magic powers, arms parallel to the floor in the pose of crucifixion, the lieutenant rasps

> This I believe in...I believe in death. I believe in disease. I believe in injustice and inhumanity, torture and anger and hate...I believe in murder. I believe in pain. I believe in cruelty and infidelity. I believe in slime and stink and every crawling, putrid thing...every possible ugliness and corruption, you son of a bitch. I believe...in you. 

The Gemini Killer wants the secular protagonist to believe in the actuality of the Divine, to convince him of the cruelty of an order that permits the evil he has wrought over the course of the film. Lightning strikes the padded floor, over and over. Through the broken surface, arms reach up from spectral fog. We see the black boy from the beginning, face painted as in a minstrel show, tears of blood trickling from the silver ingots hammered through his eyes.

The cop's speech about scum and villainy is ambiguous. All these bad things seem to be the domain of the Devil/Gemini Killer. It's unlikely that he is affirming his loyalty to the infernal. The monologue is a negation through affirmation. The film is not that ambiguous. It's pretty clear about what's happening, and does not play "Devil's advocate" and try to represent his infernal perspective. It simply does not both to complete certain causal circles. The power of the film comes from arresting images; excellent craft, combined with a narrative that is clearly outside the American cinema we typically associate with this level of craft; and its lack of resolution. This is not the same as ambiguity.

Finally, the possessed priest, our "Gemini Killer," momentarily gains control of his body; the cop blows his brains out, the Devil is deprived of a vessel, and evil is vanquished.

***

Why do I feel so bad in this room? In all classrooms? Too much baggage. I should do an immanent critique of me, here, right now.

Immanent critique of the hospital bombing. In what sense is it real? A bunch of children and injured people were attacked. A strike at a building whose function is to shelter the sick and injured. A war crime by international law; a moral crime by universal law. They try to flatten it by presenting it on a screen, alongside everything else; but its reality spills onto the streets.

We learned new chants at the rally on Sunday. We showed up at Dorchester Square to practise them before going on the march. We were led by a voice that came from somewhere out in the sea of people. They spread, and we were slowly off. It was raining lightly; a ceiling of umbrellas added to the atmosphere of collectivity.

---
date: 2023-10-27
title: Halloween is One Year
---

## Friday {.chapter-subsection}

Wake up feeling terrible. Halloween is one year. What progress have I made? Had sex with three girls, none of whom I respect. I'm as alone as ever, making no progress on finding my way in the world. This is not to mention the professional woes---no job, no job; a deadbeat!

Girl next to me is reading *Frankenstein*. I'm doing nothing. I have good strength and pretty good technique. A few muscles, at least.

---
date: 2023-11-04
title: A Single Rotation of the Moon
---

## Saturday {.chapter-subsection}

There is that idea in *Cave of Forgotten Dreams* that societies and cultures that do not have writing live outside of history; ten thousand years is the same as a single rotation of the moon.

*creation story* <--> *architecture* <--> *time* / Thanksgiving

The theme of Thanksgiving is the significant part that's still missing. A paragraph at the beginning and end where I speak in the first person. I say what *my* relation is to the topics at hand, *my* relationship to colonialism and whiteness. It's my place to say what and who I am thankful for. Something sincere and real.

---
date: 2023-11-07
title: Life is In the World, Not Synapses
---

## Tuesday {.chapter-subsection}

Rally, relational pacing.

- Reading the hinge: it's not a comma or a hyphen, but a hinge in the writing

- Neurodiversity falls into pathology
	- Neuropathy
		- Identity versus neurodiversity
- Pathology returns to mind/body dualism
	- Brain/body versus mind
	- Life is in the world, not synapses

---
date: 2023-11-09
title: Perfect Italian-style Foam
---

## Thursday {.chapter-subsection}

At F. The new guy here is talking about Ezra Pound with one of his regulars. I already didn't like his attitude or look: it's disappointing to me that one of the original Italian cafes is now recruiting scruffy millennials. I have a training shift for a full-time job as a server. The indent of the saucer where the cup sits is filthy; the bottom of the cup is filthy because the grill of the espresso machine is filthy. Despite this detail, I will concede that the milk is perfect Italian-style foam.

Right now, my goal is very modest. It's 11:43 am; if I stay here and try to read or write until 12:45, I can be on the gym floor by 1, then hopefully out by 3pm. Go home just long enough to drop off things, then bike to the new job. Bring book and notebook, and afterwards---you are permitted to get a drink.

---
date: 2023-11-11
title: It's the Question of Everything
---

## Saturday {.chapter-subsection}

It's all hopeless. No prospects. Everything going downhill.

Working on *Morning Regrets* now, because I feel terrible and it's all I have.

The key to making this story interesting is to play up the sense of The Block. The reason this character couldn't talk to the girl at the party is actually something very Epic---it's very Conceptual. It's the question of everything. Fictional. Not quotidian.

Hallucinatory. Vision goes black and white. Hearing things, seeing things. Put some more ghosts in there. Kick the cat. Skin the cat.

All this writing does is depress me....

---
date: 2023-11-12
title: Taking a Crack
---

## Sunday {.chapter-subsection}

Taking a crack at the Western application. By God, it's all impossible, LOL!

UWO and Concordia are now the main ones, because S--'s endorsement makes me think maybe I actually have a chance.

The weekend has been immensely depressing and lonely. The calendar is an undifferentiated stretch of loneliness. For my birthday this year, I will have no-one to go to the spa with, no-one to go to dinner with. The season is already almost over. C-- is probably dead---I might as well join him in Hell, where at least the Devil will be glad to see me. 

My only hope is to just drown it all out. If I can sublimate my unhappiness into a creative project, be one of those artists who makes one intense, juvenile work that cuts close to the bone...I always fancied myself the kind of artist capable of producing a diverse body, pieces both intellectual and creative. Someone like Henry James. I'll take whatever I can get because I have no talent. There's no Divine Spark within me, no syphilis to drive me to the brink of madness, no early education in the classics, no master who drilled craft into me---all I have, in truth, is my narcissism.

---
date: 2023-11-14
title: Working for Zionists
---

## Tuesday {.chapter-subsection}

At my new job, I saw the cute girl that I saw at O several months ago. Didn't talk to her. Too cowardly. She has nice rosy cheeks and a round face. [She was studying something related to theology](/diaries#2023-10-14). A domain that I respect, but it's a bad sign that she's at the Israeli restaurant.

And that's the other thing, dear diary: I get a job, and of course they're on a BDS list! What a joke. I feel paranoid there. It sucks. Palestine pin on my jacket, keffiyah around my neck. I'm going to get fired, and just when I thought I could relax.

The goal is diffuse today. Don't have much of one. I won't return to the APCON essay until Thursday, earliest. I should work on *Beneath Language*, but I'm not feeling it. What I am feeling is the *Morning Regrets* story...it has good parts---I swear there's something there!

The first several paragraphs are decent. My starting concept was "realism," i.e. truthful and authentic, not concerned with plot; but do we prefer instead to make it *less* realistic, about a guy so lonely he starts to hallucinate, as in *Oldboy* when she starts seeing ants? A conventional twist, but maybe that's a good thing: it's recognizable, and therefore I don't have to work as hard.

---
date: 2023-11-16
title: Notes on *Morning Regrets*
---

## Thursday {.chapter-subsection}

The story becomes something else when it moves into a closer analysis of class society (the Hegel class's society). It's unfortunately a bit disconnected. If we can get it to the point where it's doing a serviceable job of describing the characters and social dynamics, then I can add in---more hallucinations? We need something to bring us back to the morning where the narrative begins.

Okay, here's the plot: you put her name into the computer once, twice, and the third occasion her name swims into view. That's the magic element: that's the story of the morning. It ends with a dialogue. It needs to end with an anti-climax ("realistic"), because although there's change within the limits of the narrative, he does *not* learn his lesson.

- Wake up depressed
- Remember the party from night prior
- External dynamics of the Hegel class
- Discussion of sense-certainty with J-- and E--
- V--, guilt and shame
- Internal dynamics of the Hegel class

We need a better structure for moving through time. We need two more events. One event can be work related...maybe in a desperate moment before work, I enter her name into the computer for the second time.

1. The first is in bed, when you're unable to move
2. The second is before work, when you're feeling completely useless
3. The third is after work, when you have some confidence

Despite the rejection that did occur, there is still this unknowability (opacity); still an element of Schrodinger's love affair. But we have to put this into relation, or into Hegelian terms. The actual and the virtual.

Maybe when you look in the mirror, you see someone else. You don't know---you can never know whether the Other "recognized" you in that brief [flash of the eye](/diaries#2023-09-08)---but it's possible!

---
date: 2023-11-17
title: Birthday List
---

## Friday {.chapter-subsection}

- Sugar
- Cheese
- Red onion
- Mushrooms
- Tomatoes
- Spinach
- Mozzarella
- Flour
- White onion
- Radishes
- Tahini
- Greek yogurt
- Butter
- Dill
- Lemon
- Parsley
- Chili flakes
- Cucumber
- Pepper
- Canned whole tomatoes
- Dried oregano

---
date: 2023-11-19
title: A Good Opportunity
---

## Sunday {.chapter-subsection}

How am I going to talk to the girl next door...I can say: I was so wasted the other night, I could barely speak---but it was so nice to talk to you, to learn a bit about you---it was the nicest birthday gift of all. It felt like God smiled on me; it felt like the clouds parted, and an angel floated down on a crepuscular moonbeam. Not just because she is a smiling, cheerful beauty; but because *something* happened. From out of the entropic chaos of the world; from out of the constant, impersonal movement of the city, a figure clarifies. Vibrations cohere and become corporeal. I want to learn more about her. 

My *Thanksgiving* essay was rejected by APCON, and I will say that it feels terrible. That and not having a job have got me feeling very stressed. Worried. *Failure*.

Who else publishes weird little philosophy essays? Who can I send this to? Don't let it go to waste---it needs to go somewhere---a proper literary journal---this is a good opportunity---but it's low priority. The essay is bad, after all. I knew that when I submitted it. It's good that it won't be published in its current form, because it would be a stain on my record (not that [spotless](/reviews/points-of-light) to begin with). Most of my portfolio does not hold up. Instead of worrying about this vain bullshit, I need to get a fucking job.

---
date: 2023-11-20
title: Frozen
---

## Monday {.chapter-subsection}

Here I am at Cafe D, back in this pit of raw concrete, and the tall beauty that I asked so many people to help me find is here. I had to track down C-- just to get her name, with which I did nothing. Learned that his mother died. Will I have the courage to approach her? After having hyped it up so much? I can't ask her out right now, I can't. She will immediately perceive how fucked up I am.

What is my plan? Walk back up St-Laurent to the package store; then to Popeye's, then to---various bars along Mont-Royal?

I'm frozen on this bench. It's not even a proper table, more like a staging ground; and yet I can't move. Too afraid to approach her, and too afraid to leave without approaching her. Maybe I should just stay here forever. G-- from R just walked by---what a prick. I am *stressed*!

---
date: 2023-11-21
title: Everyone has the Advantage
---

## Tuesday {.chapter-subsection}

Unbelievably depressed this morning. I should go back on welfare. I will never have a woman again. I am nothing but failure; a being constituted entirely by failure and rejection who will never amount to anything else. I give up. It's hopeless. I give up. Fail, constant failure without end. Rejection without end; rejection compounds rejection. An inescapable loop that I will be stuck in forever. Nothing will get better, everything will only get worse. No prospects other than this diary, which I would set on fire if only I had the motivation. I am alone and I will always be alone with nothing but my failures to keep me company, and maybe the brief warmth of this diary, if I ever get around to setting it on fire. Nothing to look forward to. I feel bad that my cat and my roommates have to suffer my presence. I would never dare, I would never presume to inflict my presence on an intimate relation.

Everyone has the advantage, and I have the disadvantage. Top of the pyramid, yet I still have managed to squander my privilege. I even failed at being bad.

---
date: 2023-11-23
title: Birthday Failures
---

## Thursday {.chapter-subsection}

The party itself was a failure. Many of the people who said they would attend did not; there were a few new friends, but attendance in general was down from last year's Christmas party, my high watermark. The food was unexpected and greeted without relish. The cookies all had the same texture, but at least they were sweet and buttery enough to get snapped up.

A moment of joy came at the end of the night, but it will only turn out to be another failure. Coming back from the bar after last call, I ran into the upstairs neighbour. Beautiful and cheerful, she felt safe enough to come inside at 4am for a smoke. Told me that her old roommate with the dog named Olive had a crush on me. Her name is C--, and she appeared like a joyful ray from out of a dark sky. Warm, cheerful, bubbly, cute. I was too wasted to make an impression---could barely slur together a few limp questions to try to learn a bit more about her.

For 24 cold and delirious hours, I was riding high on a memory as thought it were Pegasus. 15 minutes is enough fuel for days---we'll see how long. The next morning, I got a rejection letter from APCON. When I knocked on the door to deploy my Trojan horse (a pack of rolling papers), the blonde answered; and as usual she seemed grumpy, unhappy to be disturbed. But who likes when a stranger knocks on their door?

---
date: 2023-11-24
title: The Ecstasy of Optimism
---

## Friday {.chapter-subsection}

A bit of encouragement from the world hits the brain like a chemical injection. The ecstasy of optimism. A good lead, a possibility: an interview that went well, at a nice little restaurant, for an employer whose standards I recognize as being at least on par with my own. *Hope*. Hits like an amazing drug. It feels like I'm floating on air. Of course there's a storm-cloud, which is the fact that I have not so much as done a trial shift. He has infinite options, just like she does. Still: when I left, I rushed around the corner and fell to me knees on the asphalt. Facing Mecca and the low metal fence of socialized housing block, I said a prayer of thanks.

My Concordia letter of application needs a section on the diversity of my academic knowledge. This should go into the part where I talk about---my genre. How my genre is informed by my background. I'm trying to bring together a wide range of different knowledges to develop one very "cool" practise.

The Western letter is missing references to their faculty, but otherwise it's done.

---
date: 2023-11-26
title: Pay Attention, but Don't Let Me Notice
---

## Sunday {.chapter-subsection}

Infatuated with anyone who pays attention. "I don't like to talk about myself." I try to remain mysterious, and I'm proud of this (feminine) trait. I did not realize how easy it is to see through my guardedness. The very sexy blonde immigration lawyer---you know, the one who paid attention to me---she was easily able to uncover my stupid tricks.

---
date: 2023-11-29
title: The Most Insane Rationalization I Have Ever Indulged In
---

## Wednesday {.chapter-subsection}

Two days since I gave my number to the girl upstairs. I paced the landing where our two doors let out for ten minutes before J-- took pity on me, knocked for me. When she opened, she was wearing a silk robe and a scarf in her hair; she saw me and looked down at herself as though to say, *well, this is how you have found me; and?* I didn't know what to say---it was one of those comedic moments where the head empties itself. At the crucial moment, all my Works decay, and "Of that colossal Wreck, boundless and bare / The lone and level sands stretch far away." [^1] She won't be in touch. I know, because to do so would be too active for the feminine. It would be an explicit admission of interest, and would thereby negate the feminine power of *mystery*. I know the power of mystery very well. When I told her that it was nice to talk to her, she agreed, and I believed her...I believe her now. But she has other things to do. She is not going to be so forthright in signalling her interest. She can't---structurally, logically. It makes no rational sense. If she calls me, if she texts me, that would be her activity. She is a woman---she is not going to be the active one, and nor should she. It would be a weak, un-lady-like move, and she's not weak. I don't even want her to: I want her to signal passively that she is interested, but I want to be the one to initiate things. I am a man, after all, even if a pathetic and wretched one.

[^1]: Shelley, *Ozymandias*. [Accessed online](https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/46565/ozymandias).

Of course she is not going to call me. The entire structure of civilization---no, but φύσις (*physis*) itself is against us. It's not merely that we are neighbours, and therefore there is an inherent risk...but all our meetings are contingent on admitting attraction. I thought there was some admission of attraction when she came into the apartment at 4am and told me her friend had a crush on me---but there remains plausible deniability. At this stage, it would only work to move things along by "accident." That is the most frustrating aspect of dating: everything must appear "accidental," as though there are no stakes involved.

I can't tell if it's me or the world. I always feel the need for a subterfuge. There needs to be some *excuse*. A woman will not simply *agree* to go out with me, just as one does not simply *walk* into Mordor. She will not simply *admit* that she is attracted to me, will not concede that she wants to know me and be known by me. There needs to be a pretense---a network of excuses, justifications; otherwise, she makes herself vulnerable. And why would she make herself vulnerable to a stranger? It's quite frustrating, but I understand it. What I don't quite understand is how to transcend. This whole discussion is upsetting to me. A woman knows that I am an attractive guy; we have plenty in common. There's a lot of compatibility. She saw the books, the TV, the red flag, the nice apartment: she knows that I have tastes and interests and probably feels some curiosity to know more about me---just like I am curious to know about her...but "human society is an anti-physis." [@beauvoir2011, 94]
