---
title: IV
description: February 22, 2024--
published: no
---

---
date: 2024-02-22
title: Like Chekhov
---

## Thursday {.chapter-subsection}

This story needs some way to spin the faith vs Enlightenment theme. It's contained in the difference between D-- and myself, and it hinges on this perspective on polyamory as a high-tech optimization of a root (family). The hubris it must take to think that one can change something so immortal is quite astonishing.

Impossible to focus. While I sit here at the dining room table, there's a girl wandering around the kitchen, muttering like a meth-head. Big headphones on to make sure I don't bother her. The way I have imagined this story is very condescending towards D--.

What is the point of even telling a story? Nobody cares, not even me. We can only hope to be as real as possible---even going so far as to replicate the fractious structure of thought. And don't forget to *[negate the negation](https://youtu.be/xyqvEJs93oc?si=bvLl8_7MV6rVaCJW)*.

Maybe the whole thing is too ambitious. Can I represent myself and D-- in a way that's equal? No, but it doesn't have to be. It just needs to be a story.

The main character is always the narrator, who wins us over with the depth of his gaze and the consistency of his voice. The reader cares about the narrator just as much as other characters. The narration of D--, who does not represent herself, must be neutralized. No character will ever work if they are a caricature. Like Chekhov:

> What I admire most about Chekhov is how free of agenda he seems on the page—interested in everything but not wedded to any fixed system of belief, willing to go wherever the data takes him. He was a doctor, and his approach to fiction feels lovingly diagnostic. Walking into the examination room, finding Life sitting there, he seems to say, “Wonderful, let’s see what’s going on!” It’s not that he didn’t have strong opinions (his letters are proof that he did). But in his best stories (and here I’d include, in addition to the three in this book, “The Lady with the Pet Dog,” “In the Ravine,” “Enemies,” “About Love,” and “The Bishop”) he seems to be using the form to move beyond opinions, to destabilize the usual ways we go about formulating them. --- [@saunders2021, 343]

---
date: 2024-02-24
title: Pros and Cons of UWO
---

## Saturday {.chapter-subsection}

Do I really have something so smart to say? Yes, I do. Something very profound and important about the nature of technology, media, art, society. Something very smart, very gratifying. Another level up. I will be so, so smart---and just so, so unable to be happy in this world. It's not the world that's cursed, it's me.

Pros							Cons
-----    						-----
Become extra smart				Leave Tony
Write a thesis					Leave the precious apartment
Learn German					Lose all my career developments
New place, new opportunity  	Lose my precious social life
Potential detox, retreat		Lose my French

---
date: 2024-02-26
title: Ritual and Sacrifice
---

## Monday {.chapter-subsection}

The proposed solution is to not change anything. *If you feel like you are making progress, why change?* We know from exercise science that constant shock is bad. You need to settle in, find a rhythm and pursue progress until the end. The only reason to change is when you have stopped making progress.

But If I don't go to Western, I need to make a sacrifice. If I give up on Western, it must be because I'm doing something else instead.

Studies are how you set yourself apart as an artist. Easy enough to be sensitive; challenging to have command of one's craft; it is most difficult of all to be sensitive, have a command of one's craft, and also to be knowledgeable. That's what sets one apart: knowledge is power, after all.

The question is not "what sacrifice am I willing to make," but "what sacrifice is called for." Do I want to continue working in restaurants? If I am able to make the same in this new job, or at least to earn the bottom end of the range---and to have up to 40 hours per week; well, there would not be much reason to continue working in service.

What I want is to work like 20, maybe 30 hours a week, but to still have enough money to support myself. Then I could have time to write. But it's not clear if I can't just write right now. I should be able to---there's enough time in the day, after all; it's not like I'm doing something all the time. Ritual is the only thing that can make it work.

To depend on these rituals, this routine, and yet---to remain open to the spontaneity of Being. That's the real challenge. That's the seeming impossibility.

---
date: 2024-03-05
title: Generations and Worlds
---

## Tuesday {.chapter-subsection}

There's a story-review to be written about *Les jours parfaits*. Going to see it with A--, her response ("cringe, interminable..."); meanwhile, I'm over here relating intensely. Communication across generations, the disjuncture of individual worlds are themes in the film. Is there something new in the world, or has my perception of the phenomenon (aging) changed?

What voice could be appropriate for this kind of story? There might be something in the events that constitute enough for a narrative, but the problem is coming up with a perspective that is in itself worth exploring. That extra touch is what distinguishes literature from narration. That's what I don't have.

---
date: 2024-03-08
title: What I'm Building Towards
---

## Friday {.chapter-subsection}

I love how high up the counter by the window at O is. Yesterday I had a terrible crash during training: no energy, no more sugar to keep my going. I have to return to basic principles: walking begins with putting one foot in front of the other. I am nothing like these people I'm reading, or the ones I'm competing against: I haven't put in enough time! My craft is nowhere near as good. Needs more STORY. A narrative with twists and turns. Maybe a perspective more interesting than my own. The K-- story---that's what we're building towards. Everything else is practise, and I need so much of it.

---
date: 2024-03-12
title: Technical Assistance for the More-than-human
---

## Tuesday {.chapter-subsection}

Last week, when I was helping E-- with technical assistance on his new project, I allowed the rusty water to spill beyond its strict confines (whose pristine white is sacred to all *maîtres imprimeurs*). E-- graciously saw it as an aesthetic element in its own right.

When I first heard him explain twice in the same day the concept behind the project he's working on, I only knew him from his works I had archived just the previous week. His style (from almost 10 years ago) looked like emo cartoons. I liked it.

I was initially skeptical, but my opportunity antenna vibrated at the keyword "more-than-human." Today I began to see his project: I can see his style beginning to emerge through minimal collaboration (editing) of unpredictable natural forces. The interaction between selected salt waters from around the world and rusty metal plates is imprinted onto paper.

I'm curious to know more about why he has chosen to work in print media, when his other works are much more installation-based.

Water used as a stand-in for the more-than-human carries a lot of political significance. E-- has some kind of project involving elders in Cuba; what is going on across his projects that we can learn from?

Emotional state: *satisfied*.

---
date: 2024-03-16
title:
---

## Saturday {.chapter-subsection}

Why do I write in this diary? And to what end do I say that this counts as putting my life on the line?

Erin said: *write like your life depends on it.*

A-- said: *your instinct is to write about yourself.* Somehow, this counts as putting my life on the line? "Interesting," she said---and she has a point. Not that it's interesting, but that my instinct reveals something. My individualism, at least; my narcissism, if we want to be rude about it. Should I be writing more about revolution, about communist theory?

If I were to die tomorrow, I would want to express my emotions more than anything. I would want to tell the barista at PR how often I think about her. Tell R-- how much I learned from her. Tell E-- how important she was to me. Tell N-- how little I respect her. Tell A-- how sorry I am.

Etc, etc. What else? The diary, and my predilection for sharing my most inner darkness---it's all a function of---what? One the one hand, when I review these entries, I see many of them as a narrative exercise. Practise in telling a story, but without the hard work of inventing one from nothing. Instead, I can just focus on reporting something in a way that is (ideally) compelling.

Today, for instance, I got into PR around 10:30am. I was there only about ten minutes before she showed up. We don't make eye contact anymore. I was sitting at the bar, unusually without a book, notebook, laptop---truly just hanging out.

...but there was something in the way she poured me a glass of water that I think acknowledged everything. In that moment---I felt everything. She didn't make eye contact, but she acknowledged my appreciation with something far more intimate: an averted gaze, a shy smile.

Was it a shy smile, though? Or just a small smile? If I eavesdropped right, it's her birthday. A fellow water sign, and another Pisces---just like A--.

Why do I like her? Because she's beautiful? She has a sallow beauty, like J--.

What does the sallow look imply? Depth, character, profundity, wisdom. It's not an easy beauty. It's complex. She seems complex---with her pants, her billowing shirts, her deformed beauty...it all implies inwardness. She seems inward, yet still feminine.

"Looking for a beer?" she asked me as I stood in front of the cooler. In fact, I was waiting to use the toilet.

"Just admiring the colour co-ordination," I said instead.

"Yes, thanks, I tried to put them in order to make a rainbow."

Some guy asking me about my shirt. The clusterfuck with the washer-dryer. No workout today, except for my grip. Maybe my grip is like, weak, since I started using straps for everything.

I am on the cusp of having a girlfriend now, anyway, so I should not be thinking about other women.

The other day, I felt like I was finally making progress on the stupid *Polyamory* story. Mostly just because I began to add in the introduction. Something to set the tone. Maybe we can integrate something from the writing exercise. But C-- is not in this story, at least not at this juncture.

The idea is to work on a short story cycle. That means, they're connected, both in terms of narrative and character---as well as theme. The theme is living in the ultra-modern Contemporary; faith versus Enlightenment, and how it fucks with our ability to have relationships.

So far, we have *Morning Regrets*, *Polyamory*, and the to-be-written *Larrys Story*. What else? The Spinoza story? Hard to see how to integrate that one into the themes---or, more likely, the setting. The setting needs some consistency.

What is another aspect of modern life that I feel strongly about? Contemporary art, of course. We should do a proper essay--story about aesthetics and Contemporary art. Maybe based on working with Ed? Who knows...but there is a narrative there, and it could be in the genre of a profile piece / interview / essay about art and creativity. The process.

Could also do something on the topic of art, aesthetic philosophy, and *bodybuilding* (as an art form). The idea here is that because it's a subjectively-mediated, ongoing practise, that makes it the same---on par---with other kinds of art practise.

Even the fact that bodybuilding has an audience means that it is, in fact, validated by an artworld. The aesthetics of the pro-bodybuilding industry are not very popular, but amateurs still learn from them.

This means that technique and programming are both, also, questions of aesthetics. When we see someone with terrible form, we therefore do not want to say that they are not doing the lift *optimally*---that's Enlightenment thinking, science mindset. Instead, we say that their technique is *ugly* because it does not correspond to the desired outcome. If you see someone painting in some way poorly, using bad technique, it's "ugly" because it does not properly execute the intention. In the same way, that bad technique can be intentionally deployed by someone who has mastery over their medium in order to accomplish some specific end.

---
date: 2024-03-18
title:
---

## Monday {.chapter-subsection}
