---
title: Some of the Women I Have Known, Loved, and Failed
status: ongoing (?)
description: Notes on failed relationships.
abstract: Detailing my sexual and romantic history, with a particular eye to recognizing patterns. Patterns in the women I become attached to; patterns in our relations; patterns in their failure.
tags:
  - personal
  - women
date: 2022-12-03
---

> I toss these pages in the faces of timid, furtive, respectable people and say: ‘There! that’s me! You may like it or lump it, but it’s true. And I challenge you to follow suit, to flash the searchlight of your self-consciousness into every remotest corner of your life and invite everybody’s inspection. Be candid, be honest, break down the partitions of your cubicle, come out of your burrow, little worm.’ As we are all such worms we should at least be honest worms.
> 
> [W.N.P Barbellion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/W._N._P._Barbellion),_ [*Journal of a Disappointed Man*](https://www.pseudopodium.org/barbellionblog/books.html)

1. Rachelle

	The longest one, and the one most recently passed. I still haven't successfully eradicated the deep-seated sense that it will work out, even though that is no longer possible (*but we've been through so much---we've worked it out before---*). I would swear vengeance on her and get it all out in the open, but the nature of a failed relationship is that it inevitably tars both parties. Her failures are my failures, and mine are hers. Somehow, during the pandemic, she wound up becoming a fairly extreme political reactionary; she also degenerated into illiteracy, again on my watch. It was my job to protect her and I failed. Since our first trauma, since she cheated on me with my best friend, whom I repeatedly warned her was going to try to sleep with her, I have always asked myself if I know what love is. In the early days, I had no doubt whatsoever. When I had to leave her apartment early in the morning, and she would stand on the porch watching me recede, and I could never look away. Perhaps this explains why I never liked her kissing me on the neck---why I found myself becoming so cold to her. I don't want to acknowledge my own failure to myself, my inability to protect my own interests. I should never have fallen in love with her to begin with.

2. Noelle

	The most disastrous one, the one whose fallout haunts me today. She disappointed me more than anyone, that's true; but I loved her very, very deeply; I know that she loved me too; the disaster it wound up in is not something anyone could have predicted, but I still feel like I bear some responsibility.

2. Eden

	Far too wise for me, knew better, got out quick. I am very grateful to her for her maturity. She sensed long in advance what Rachelle came to know after four long years.

2. Alisha

	Funny, platonic, then tragic. Too tragic to speak of right now.

2. Felicity

	Fun but erupted strangely. One where I asserted myself, where I looked out for my own best interests. It is because of this that she makes it to the list of women I have disappointed.

3. Ashley

	Possibly the one with the highest ratio of depth of connection to amicability of breakup. It was a good connection and a fun time that ended fine.
