---
date: 2023-10-24
title: Immanent Critique of *The Exorcist III*
---

If a tree falls in a forest and no-one is around to hear it, does it make a sound?

Immanent critique of *The Exorcist III*: The guy looks too old to be the lead in a horror-action film. But that's a generalized category already.

So much left unsaid: the nature of the possession; most of the horrible killings happen off-screen. But if I say that it's "more" or "less" of anything, then I am comparing it to other things. Not immanent enough.

The plot follows a cop investigating a series of murders attached to the "Gemini killer," who was caught and executed years ago. The priest who jumps out the window in the first *Exorcist* film is now ambiguously played by two actors, and claims responsibility for the new murders---despite being locked up in a straight waistcoat in a rubber room.

Our protagonist is at the end of his rope. He's too old and unhealthy-looking for such a role. He's constantly losing his temper, yelling and screaming at anyone who happens to present the slightest friction in his quest.

The final scene of the film is powerful. A priest tries to perform an exorcism on a man in the padded room, but his Bible is torn to pieces by an invisible force. He flung upward and pressed to the ceiling. Peeling away, his skin and flesh stick to the padded surface, revealing the gory striations of muscle underneath.

The cop bursts in, gun drawn. He doesn't see the priest bleeding in the corner. He confronts the killer, who keeps referring to himself in the plural---as though he were "legion." His motivation seems to be to make the cop "believe."

Pinned to the wall by an unseen power, arms parallel to the floor as though crucified, he rasps---*I believe...in depravity, in scum, in unspeakable things*, listing a litany of terrible things. Did the Devil hope he would come to believe in God so that he could take it away from him? Lightning strikes the floor, over and over inside the rubber room. Through the broken floor, arms reach up from Hell. The black boy from the beginning, face painted like in a minstrel show, silver ingots hammered through his eyes.

The cop's speech about scum and villainy is ambiguous. All these bad things seem to be the domain of the devil: is he affirming the power of the infernal powers? It seems more like the monologue functions as some kind of denial, although it's not entirely clear how. The film is ambiguous through and through.

Finally, the possessed priest momentarily gains control of his body; the cop blows his brains out, the devil is deprived of a vessel, and evil is vanquished.

***

Why do I feel so bad in this room? In these classes? In all classes? Too much baggage. I should do an immanent critique of me in this class.

Immanent critique of the hospital bombing. In what sense is it real? A bunch of children and injured people, the known defenseless were killed.

I learned new chants at the rally on Sunday. We showed up at Dorchester Square to learn them before the march. We were led by a voice that came from somewhere out in the sea of people. They spread, and we went slowly on the march. It was raining, but not too bad. The umbrellas added to the atmosphere of collectivity.
