---
date: 2023-11-16
title: Notes on *Morning Regrets*
---

The story becomes something else when it moves into a closer analysis of class society (the Hegel class's society). The problem is that it's disconnected. If we can get it to the point where it's doing a serviceable job of describing the characters and social dynamics, then I can add in---more hallucinations? We need something to bring us back to the morning of waking up.

Okay, here's the plot: you put her name into the computer once, twice, and on the third her name swims into view. That's the magic element. That's the story of the morning. It ends with us engaging in a dialogue. Fantasy, or banal reality? I think an anti-climactic ("realistic") ending gives us a better shot of ending on a joke.

- Wake up depressed
- Remember the party from night prior
- External dynamics of the Hegel class
- Discussion of sense-certainty with J-- and E--
- V--, guilt and shame
- Internal dynamics of the Hegel class

We need a better structure for moving through time. More needs to happen on the first day. Everything else is a recollection. The morning and that day is the story's present. We need two more events. Our theme is ritual \& lack thereof, so one event can be work related: in that moment, you, our hero, is in the limbo at the end of classes, before graduation, and without a job. That is about when I would be doing my first trial shift at R. Maybe in a desperate moment before work, I enter her name into the computer for the second time.

1. The first is in bed, when you're unable to move
2. The second is before work, when you're feeling completely useless
3. The third is before bed, when you're buzzed?

That's basically enough of a plot. Are we making him some kind of hallucinatory guy? We don't need to insert noir tropes, fuck, but we still need some kind of hook. The hook is whether or not she actually *did* recognize him in the same way that he recognized her; whether or not he's crazy, projecting, or if he's correctly reading her affect.

As an epilogue, we can talk about seeing her at the reading and constantly moving to keep a distance. Then, seeing her and the Lil' Peep BF out the window. Basically, despite the rejection, there is still this unknowability (opacity); still an element of Schrodinger's love affair. But we have to put this into relation, or into Hegelian terms. The actual and the virtual.

It's fantasy to think that there is a possibility of things continuing. The story ends after finding her online, on an unambiguous note of rejection. Not cruel, just real. Maybe when you look in the mirror, you see someone else. You don't know---you can never know whether the Other recognized you in that brief [flash of the eye](/blog#2023-09-08), but it's possible!

- Parsley
- Peas
- Noodles
- Celery
- Beef
- Soy sauce
