---
date: 2023-09-08
title: Pitching Indiscriminately
---

My goal right now is to respond to V--'s email, and to send the pitch to at least one more magazine.

Can't do the latter. Difficult enough to do the former. Too distracted by thoughts of girls. The desire for love. Yea, how I desire to love and to be loved. And yet---I am not available to women. They don't know about me. I am not there. No-one cares. And they're right not to, because I'm fucking ugly. I have no friends. Loser---no-one wants you, no-one ever will.

The goal for this weekend is to pitch the Wolfgang review to at least 3 places. Emails to be sent out on Monday. Start pitching it indiscriminately: a 1k word column. That's all I want to show for it. Something short, funny, sassy, that people will read. Will want to read. Just 1000 words.

*Just before 16h*---Everything is futile. I have zero prospects. Nothing but sadness, loneliness. Life of the modern gymcel. Life of the modern man. I should go back to l'Escogriffe and tell that girl the truth: that I liked the look in her eyes. I liked the way they flashed in that half-second, as she was dodging drunks at the Monsoon show. Couldn't stop thinking about it, and even though we are very far away from each other---it made me want to know her more.

*'Round midnight*---Maybe if I wore more tonal outfits, like the cowboy white-hat on the couch opposite me---here, now, at CDP. Maybe if I had bigger side delts someone would love me. Maybe if I had used sunscreen in the morning for the past ten years, and my face were not so wrinkly; maybe If I were one degree higher in my profession. Maybe if I had finished that third reading of the *Phenomenology of Spirit*, someone would love me.

Somehow, I need to stop thinking about this. Somehow, I need to learn to be happy alone and sexless.

What else am I supposed to do? Write the Wolfgang review on spec? Move on to something else? I really wanted to write it as one of those great, propulsive little pieces---one of those funny, smart, touching, short little reviews that you read sometimes. Just something in a minor key.

My relationship to women is 100% parasocial. Few friends, few real interactions; instead, just---the hot girls I ogle while at work. The hot girls I ogle while at their work. Is this better or worse than an app? Is it the same? Bars, fake third spaces, are *here*---I'm at one right now, in fact. Apps are not here; they're over there. Therefore, the *via negativa* would be to not introduce any new elements. Happiness (wife) will be found by removing everything until only she remains.

Saw E-- last week; saw J-- and her Lil' Peep boyfriend today. Next time, it will be C-- ---or more likely, R--. Maybe A-- is back in town. How did [seeing M--] make me feel?

Basically, I know that we are compatible. I would bet my testicles on it. She has precisely what I need, which is a connection to the earth. I have what she needs---a watery depth. We are both graves to each other. I know with the certainty of conviction that either of these 3 women would be good for me. I had a chance...when I see these girls, I think of the way my life could have gone. I see the opportunity that passed me by.

I'm going to call it. Throw in the towel. Ha, ha. What a joke. The very notion that I could give up on romance. I would die before ending a romance prematurely (whatever that means). I want to die all the time. Drink down every last poison drop. Wring the fruit until nothing is left, even if it kills me. Kill me. I will die for a love that does not exist.

*Later, in front of La Rama [around 2am]*---What exactly is the idea with all this stupid writing? There's nothing else to do...The taste of tequila is still on my lips, stronger than this nice beer I have.

One thing: I learned the girl from l'Esco's name. L--. That never would have happened if D-- hadn't been there. If not for her---well, we know I would not have been able to ask. But I did have the opportunity to learn, and learn I did---that she has a boyfriend.

Describe her: Lydia, bartender and "technical director" at l'Esco. Loose cuff on synthetic black pants; cheap, beat up running shoes. A grey t-shirt hangs over a barely-perceptible protrusion of breasts. Smiling and friendly in a plain and homely kind of way, but evidently habituated to the big city life. Small breasts, just like her ass and her narrow hips. Not my kind of woman, necessarily---just a woman. The most feminine element of her appearance is her hair. Long, wavy, down past the shoulders, the tips holding on to the remainder of a blonde dye job.

---
title: "On the Occasion of Checking my Inbox, or, Why Phones Aren't Allowed at Work"
description: "Writing Prompt: Description, adjacent"
tags:
  - "ASEM 2023"
date: 2023-09-19
---

Sometimes I am so drawn into the pleasure of my sensing-body that I lapse into idyll, and it's then that Life needs to remind me of my own facticity. The scorching ray of an all-seeing eye falls on me, and I am brought crashing back down into a paper body. Who I have been anchors me, a Protestant fetter that privileges me to be who I am now.

We might feel differently about the organism our *cogito* is attached to, but no-one likes to be interpellated. In the course of a life, each of us will sew an idol representing ourselves; and if we fail to repay our debts, it is the duty of our creditor to stick pins through the stuffing of our joints and send bolts of pain screaming out of the blue light of an interface, glimpsed in the half-light of a bored moment at the bar. Sometimes I lapse into idyll, and therefore need to be reminded of my own facticity. A facade of sociality that slips beneath the waves of forgetting, laying bare an iron edifice of fiduciary obligation. There's no more rude awakening than a reminder of our economic trail. I tried to set fire to my icon as though it were a Wicker Man, but the rain put it out. My debts haunt me like a spectre that phases into the corporeal when I need to be disciplined, before disappearing back into the alien unknown. A creature of the imagination hovering on the edge of my peripheral, tinting my vision black when the pain overcomes me out of nowhere. *Don't make me do it. I don't like it any more than you do.* The trace of the way we lived in the world; who we are, best understood as *who we are no longer*. A tether to the past, an unjust fetter, but---let's be honest: have we really changed? Aren't we still the same desperate phylum scrabbling for survival, borrowing money without a plan for how to pay it back, from someone whose memory will always trigger a split dioptre? 

Remember? Remember? She's still there, out of sight but adjacent, still in the same world as you.

*hello*
