---
date: 2023-10-14
title: Girls at Olimpico
---

Must apply to jobs. Shoes not working very well. In my 20s I had a lot of promise because I was coming from nothing, because I was still young. Now in my 30s, I should have built on that experience. I should have built on those connections---but really I'm starting from nothing. That's how it feels, anyway. Building on ruins and salted earth.

But that's all in my head. When I started working at McKiernan's, it felt like I was in way over my head. It felt like there was no way that I could make it work---but I settled in. Found the confidence. It was working. They wanted to keep me on. I'm good at this job.

The guy at the rally yesterday said "I love you even more [for carrying the Irish flag]," the implication being that he already loved me just for being there. It felt great to be part of something, even if I am not technically associated with Ireland other than by being white.

Beautiful women surround me at Olimpico. The one on the right is French, has a boyfriend; beyond her is some British blonde with a Trader Joe's tote. When I heard her accent, I thought she was making a joke because of how close how much she sounds like the tough guy Londoner.

To my left is a girl studying theology. Can't tell if it's her or the other one sending voice memos. Sure sign of a crush---I can't imagine doing that with a casual friend---except that I have done it with C--...and J-- leaves me voice messages.

What do I have to offer women? Society? Nothing but a terrible time.

Kelly talks to me. Last time he sent me a photo of me without talking to me. This time he was doing some fake Italian bullshit (he's Portuguese). He doesn't appreciate me or my flakiness. Calls me a flake, loudly to my face. Fair enough.

"Weird is a nice way of putting it," he says when I repeat his words back at him. How can I tell him that I don't have the spine to do freelance work?

I should send him what I have. It's the least I could do, and I did a good job. I'm not stable enough, emotionally or financially, to be self-supporting.
