---
date: 2023-10-08
---

Put off seeing Milly. Woke up around 10 with a heavily congested nose. Windows closed, dust inside. Dozed for another hour....then went to Myriade. 1 coffee not enough. Beauty everywhere.

For [University of Western Ontario], I am supposed to submit 2 academic essays. 1 can be the last one I wrote for May [on the uncanny and the phantasmagoria]: it will need to be significantly revised, which will feel good to do, since there's such a strong seed there. I know I can make it much better. The challenge will be to integrate more Hegel in a way appropriate to an academic context; and at the same time, to downplay it. It's not an essay about Hegel---that's not the main idea, just the background.

[The above entry was written at Reservoir between 14h--15h. I was scheduled for 14h, but there was not enough work so I sat around for an hour. I then walked out and did not return.]

October 9, 2023---Slept on the couch because too depressed to go to bed. Only left the house late. How am I going to find a new job? Don't have what it takes to go out looking. I don't  have what it takes. But I deserve something better. I deserve a job where I actually have something to do. Nothing has gotten better. My employment opportunities have only diminished.

All alone on the *action de grâce*. What should I be thankful for?

- Fit, strong, muscular, as I worked hard to achieve.
- Cute enough in the face for some girls to come talk to me.
- Good apartment.
- Good cat, mostly healthy and generally sweet.
- Good hair.
- Friends who are nice to me, and with whom I mostly like to spend time. They'll be gone now that I no longer work there.
