---
date: 2023-12-09
title: I Can't Devote Myself
---

Standing at the bar adjacent to the espresso machine at O, a very interesting new place to stand---to wait. It does allow me to see behind the bar in a way I don't like. I don't like Contemporary pants---the pants people think are appropriate to wear at work. This counter must be for friends, because I, the public, should not have access to this.

Moved up to the window. The only wobbly chair in the house. Next to the [*Frankenstein* girl](/blog#2023-10-27), who is knitting in yellow with a purple hardback notebook in front of her. No copy of Shelley today. According to this very diary, it was back in October that I made note of her.

Trying to read some Baudelaire, but I woke up melancholic. The thing I most want to do is stare into space.

LOL---just read an email from V-- saying she wants to have my baby, pay my student loans, support me as a writer. She also wants me to fall in love with her, make her my wife and keep her in Montréal. I won't be able to devote myself to anyone that I don't fall in love with spontaneously---with whom the early parts of the relationship are adventurous, exciting. V-- has not changed my conception of the truth.

Right now, the kinds of truths I feel driven to divulge are about being single and alienated; about my past, what can bring a man to this brink. If I fall in love and get a girlfriend, I will want to tell *that* kind of truth. The two are (to an extent) mutually exclusive. Can't tell the truth of being single without hurting a relationship. The truth of being lonely, self-hating, self-conscious, horny; the truth of how one falls into love...
