---
date: 2023-11-29
title: The Most Insane Rationalization I Have Ever Indulged In
---

Two days since I gave my number to the girl upstairs. I paced the landing where our two doors let out for ten minutes before J-- knocked for me. When she opened, she was wearing a silk robe and a headscarf; she saw me and looked down at herself as though to say, *well, this is how you have found me, and?* I didn't know what to say---it was one of those comedic moments where the head empties itself and at the crucial moment, all my Works decay, and "Of that colossal Wreck, boundless and bare / The lone and level sands stretch far away." [^1] She won't be in touch. I know, because to do so would be too active for the feminine; and, in being an explicit admission of interest, it would negate her power. When I told her that it was nice to talk to her, she agreed, and I believed her...I believe her now. But she has other things to do; she is not going to be so forthright in signalling her interest. She can't---structurally, logically. It makes no rational sense. If she calls me, if she texts me, that would be her activity. She is a woman---she is not going to be the active one, and nor should she. It would undermine her femininity, and she's very feminine; it would be a weak move, and she's not weak. I don't even want her to: I want her to signal passively that she is interested, but I want to be the one to initiate things because, after all, I am a man.

[^1]: Shelley, *Ozymandias*. [Accessed online](https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/46565/ozymandias).

Of course she is not going to call me. The entire structure of civilization---no, but *physis* itself is against us: it's not merely that we are neighbours, and therefore there is an inherent risk...but all our meetings are contingent on admitting attraction. I thought there was some admission of attraction when she came into the apartment at 4am and told me her friend had a crush on me---but there remains some plausible deniability. At this stage, it would only work to move things along by "accident." That is the most frustrating aspect of dating: everything must appear "accidental," as though there are no stakes involved.

I honestly can't tell if it's me or the world. I always feel the need for a subterfuge. There needs to be something else---some excuse. A woman will not simply *agree* to go out with me, just as one does not simply walk into Mordor. She will not simply *admit* that she is attracted to me, will not concede that she wants to know me and be known by me. There needs to be a pretense---a network of excuses, justifications; because otherwise, she makes herself vulnerable. And why would she, to a stranger? It's quite frustrating, but I understand it. What I don't quite understand is how to transcend. This whole discussion is upsetting to me. A woman knows that I am an attractive guy; we have plenty in common---she knows that we work in the same industry, etc. There's a lot of compatibility. She saw the books, the TV, the red flag, the nice apartment: she knows that I have tastes and interests and probably feels some curiosity to know more about me---just like I am curious to know about her...but life is conspiring to keep us apart.
