---
date: 2023-10-07
title: What's Happening With M--
---

What's happening with M--? I felt bad right away. Or rather---I feel *scared*. Worried. Concerned that she's going to fall in love. Even as I am absolutely sick with self-loathing, I also know that I have a high power level. How can that be when I am actually so weak? *A pathetic loser*, you might say. I keep getting picked up---picked up off the street like a piece of trash---; and because I am husband material, she begins to think: *this piece of trash is a piece of gold; and he has no other options, therefore I am entitled to him*. I'm easy---the town bicycle. That's what A-- called me once, and it precipitated a big fight with J--, H-- and him. What does it mean for me to say no to someone? It feels impossible. I'm too afraid to hurt their feelings. Too afraid to face another long stretch without touch, attention---a *nut*.

Sitting here. What would C-- or A-- do? The latter is not a role model; the former is like a different species to me.

What would a woman do? They need to learn how to decline offers of sex at some ungodly age. It's pressed on them---it's a kind of threat. Whereas for me, for men, it's an offer---something I want and which feels scarce.

The truth is that, if I were emotionally responsible, I would not have done the hit \& quit.

I'm hard up. And I'm not good at pursuing women I feel an actual interest in.

Now I have to tell her how much I liked her flirting, her attention; but that we are not right for each other....

The Pynchon book, *Gravity's Rainbow*---I think I've lost the plot. Which is weird, given how meticulously plotted it is. It's also very carefully paced, so I'm confident that it will take me by the hand when it needs to.

Everyone at work is being paid to stand around. All the money comes from elsewhere [France]. It's a recession. Maybe we'd have something to do if---
