---
date: 2023-12-24
title: Dreaming About Computers on the Train
---

On the train to Ottawa, then to Toronto. What a difference this mode of transport makes. The staff are attractive and in a good mood. The other passengers are also attractive---more so than on the bus, certainly. I can hear the gay laughter and chattering of one of the girls behind me. The bus is so angry and unhappy. I remember some of those early rideshares: they felt like world-historical events, honestly.

I feel close to getting a girl. I feel close---still thinking about the one conversation I had with that girl from PR. She's my type---what is it about her? She has an air of seriousness, yes. As ever, what makes her my type is that I believe I recognized my attraction to her reflected back at me. She knows that I think she's hot, because she presents herself as such. And there's some confidence that she thinks I'm hot, too, far-off and vaporous like a cloud.

I've seen her boyfriend. He's nothing special. Lumberjack hipster type. I'm more of an army hipster type. But I'm serious, and I have prospects, now, wow! *Two* jobs?! Maybe even grad school?! What! Not to mention---all my training! All my computers!

I want the ultimate x230. 4 core processor, full HD display. New speakers, new Bluetooth + WiFi chip, new everything inside. The display is most difficult (and expensive).

Of course I will have to flash the BIOS, coreboot, and clean the ME...I'm also looking forward to getting the new keyboard, of course, that's obvious. I wonder if there's some way to get USB-C plugs for data, or to replace all the USB 2.0 with 3.0. Of course I will want to reinforce the lid, make it stronger and more secure---less flexible. That seems to be the main concern.

And of course I want the higher-quality cooling system. Keyboard. Perfect screen. Would have to still do VGA out, have the option of attaching a second screen.
