---
date: 2023-11-04
title: Break Form
---

The story needs more of an atmosphere of antiquity. We need more characters so we can use little details to create the sense of it being very old.

We should follow this character through the exposition of Greek cosmologies. But we can also use the parallel from Homer to the indigenous as a way to move across the ocean.

Then, the columns versus the earthworks. We can get into how these tow modes of the aesthetic relate to time. Then we have to go from that, to oral versus written outlines (Glissant).

But in literary terms, we need to stay rooted in the atmosphere of a mythical relation to time, history. Before anyone started teaching philosophy.

We also need to be more consistent with the colours, and the various cardinal winds. Help the reader make associations between them and certain attributes.

What else? Make the husband/wife more characterful. Make the indigenous guys down-to-earth and pragmatic.; make the Greek guys---not bad guys, but they have separated themselves from the world. As Nietzsche says, by the time of Plato, Greek society is already corrupt. They've alienated themselves from myth. They live in historical time now, and it's---because of the economy?!

There is that thesis in *Cave of Forgotten Dreams* that societies and cultures that do not have writing live outside of history; ten thousand years is the same as a single rotation of the moon. Maybe there's a sense of *moving-between* that is related to the worldview. Magic?

*creation story* <--> *architecture* <--> *time* / Thanksgiving

The theme of Thanksgiving is the significant part that's still missing. A paragraph at the beginning and end where I speak in the first person. I say *my* relation to the topics at hand; my relationship to colonialism and whiteness. It's my place to say what and who I am thankful for. Something sincere and real. Break form.
