---
date: 2024-02-16
title: What I Gave Up for Lent
---

Saw C-- leaving with some man on Valentine's Day. Then, later heard them fucking; then, he left at the same time as me, early in the morning! REJECTED! (Me not him.) Feels bad. It makes me feel worthless, in fact. I am a piece of garbage. She's not interested in me. No woman is. They're just not interested. How did I ever manage to score a woman---any of those times I did? I fooled them, perhaps. Now I'm damaged goods. There's no hope for me. I can't be with anyone. I'm a pathetic loser. I will never be happy. I'm broken.

LATER---Feels like a punishment to be sent home early. And without my dinner!

Try to put yourself in the mind of a woman. They want to not waste their time---and they want to feel safe. They feel safe by knowing that you are a part of a network---and knowing that they are part of *your* network.

For Lent, I have given up. I'm not supposed to be trying. Satan tempts me at every turn. There are demons everywhere.

This place (*Isle de Garde*) is big, powerful, French, and quality. I would hold it up as a gold standard---well, I would if I were an ambassador of Québec. There are couples everywhere---it's all I see---like the whole world is people fucking---everyone but me!

Women want to know all of these things about men---but all of these things are not me. All these things they want are not things I have to offer. I'm not fit---I don't have what it takes---I'm pond scum---I deserve to be alone...

I have given up for Lent. I have given up. Failure. Bad news comes in threes: I"m still waiting for the curb stomp. Do not write a letter to E--. It's impossible to justify.

How did I become such an incel? I was always this way, and it's only chance that has led me to taste the non-incel life. Pure chance---this is the life that I am led to. That I am meant for.

Do not compromise your values for this bullshit. Never had to in the past. Look at me through a woman's eyes: he's at a bar, so he has at least some money. He's at this bar, so he has some taste...but he's alone, so he has no friends, or he's a loner; and he's writing in a notebook rather than looking at his phone. This is the extent of his plan. No plans---no friends---loser! Sad, pathetic loser.

When I look around---it's just happy people enjoying each other's company. All of them seem rapt. I have never been in such a situation. Is it true that this writing is a substitute for companionship? It is true that I did not write so much when I was in a relationship---but I also didn't have the clarity of purpose.

But---I also didn't have the emotional motivation. This is part of God's plan. I must suffer before I can become who I am. I will go through this phase of extreme emotional motivation---then, I will come out the other side a seasoned pro---then, I will be ready to love. That means I need to finish this cycle of negative thinking.
