---
date: 2024-02-22
title: Like Chekhov
---

This story needs some way to spin the faith vs Enlightenment theme. It's contained in the difference between D-- and myself, and it hinges on this perspective on polyamory as a high-tech optimization of a root (family). The hubris it must take to think that one can change something so immortal is quite astonishing.

Impossible to focus. While I sit here at the dining room table, there's a girl wandering around the kitchen, muttering like a meth-head. Big headphones on to make sure I don't bother her. The way I have imagined this story is very condescending towards D--.

What is the point of even telling a story? Nobody cares, not even me. We can only hope to be as real as possible---even going so far as to replicate the fractious structure of thought. And don't forget to *[negate the negation](https://youtu.be/xyqvEJs93oc?si=bvLl8_7MV6rVaCJW)*.

Maybe the whole thing is too ambitious. Can I represent myself and D-- in a way that's equal? No, but it doesn't have to be. It just needs to be a story.

The main character is always the narrator, who wins us over with the depth of his gaze and the consistency of his voice. The reader cares about the narrator just as much as other characters. The narration of D--, who does not represent herself, must be neutralized. No character will ever work if they are a caricature. Like Chekhov:

> What I admire most about Chekhov is how free of agenda he seems on the page—interested in everything but not wedded to any fixed system of belief, willing to go wherever the data takes him. He was a doctor, and his approach to fiction feels lovingly diagnostic. Walking into the examination room, finding Life sitting there, he seems to say, “Wonderful, let’s see what’s going on!” It’s not that he didn’t have strong opinions (his letters are proof that he did). But in his best stories (and here I’d include, in addition to the three in this book, “The Lady with the Pet Dog,” “In the Ravine,” “Enemies,” “About Love,” and “The Bishop”) he seems to be using the form to move beyond opinions, to destabilize the usual ways we go about formulating them. --- [@saunders2021, 343]
