---
date: 2024-01-14
title: Drunken Ramblings from the Bishop
---

Having a real drink at Pastel Rita?! Funky playlist, girls with their arms showing. Did I get close with Audrey? Who knows---all I know is that I can't ask her out five minutes after some other guy. But---I think she's very cute; I think she thinks I'm cute---we chat well, etc; she doesn't know everybody...

Now I'm a Bishop \& Bagg. The bartender is very professional to me. I don't really invite the homely style of service. That's fine. The beer has a kind of sour taste.

The idea I had---the new idea that's pulling my heart is some kind of artist statement. That has to do with distinguishing myself from the rabble. No: it's about what it feels like to be surrounded by so much talent: it makes me feel completely pointless, anonymous. Reading Knausgaard on the page was shocking. His novels are typeset like Stephen King books---they're huge. The style is too transparent to support the kind of citation-laden writing that qualifies as Something. Every citation needs to be narrativized. That's the key, and it means that one must also be highly selective.

WTF am I on about. The question has, is, or was about whether I can somehow manage to support something like this without coming across as a huge cunt. "Ouch, my poor wounded ego, all these talented people around me."

There's got to be something! The idea was to---I'm so distracted by everything happening around me. I can't believe that there's a trivia night happening, lol. (Also, I'm now drunk.)

Okay. Artist statement. The idea was for a story about Abby, basically. That's what inspired me. How it feels like to be around people who are superior to you. At least as good, but superior for existing more than you.

If we write another story about not existing, we are 2 for 1. On a definite theme here. The guy who does not exist. It's a terrible perspective for a story, but highly symptomatic of a certain type of person.

So that seems like a go-ahead. If we have 2 stories that are on a theme, then that's basically halfway to a book. That's a pretty pathetic little series: we have to find another perspectival dyad that we can use to approach---whatever the same object is.

Right now I'm writing shorter pieces. Hopefully they can all be workshopped and brought to market. Maybe together they will work. Who knows.

After that will come an actual novel. We have to do like Faulkner and just tell stories that mean something.

Of course, what I want to do is nothing like Faulkner. What other perspectives can we offer on the same thing? What is at the heart of these two stories? Modern subjectivity? The loneliness of a pathetic man?

The problem is that I don't have much of a perspective. No. Look, I have access to something---it can be what I make it---and that's that. I can make it what I want to.

Girls I am currently obsessed with: - Audrey - Pastel Rita - ? Not that many, I guess. Natalie. Why am I so bad, why is it so difficult to actually connect with people? What do women think? They have have their lives---they have options---they are only going for a meet-cute that falls in their lap. Or rather, with a dude that is competent enough to actually make something happen. So even if I have an undeniable connection with a girl, she won't lift a finger, or---she just won't do fuck all. And I---am too proud to be with a woman who won't respond to a connection. The only relationships worth having are the ones that are completely effortless, in a sense. Like everything in life that's worthwhile. The best way to make progress is without effort.

The other problem is that no-one really thinks like this. Are there Romantics out there? Part of me wants to say that the times have simply become too hard...but all my relationships had an element of Romance---and they weren't really that long ago. It's like I have become hard of heart. I am the one who has changed!

Met Steven, a very sharp old guy, but one who is limited by his perceptions. Met Trey, a Texan here on a mission of love. Good for him.
