---
date: 2024-06-22
title: More Deleted Scenes from *Polyamory*
---

Marc showed up with his backpack over his shoulder and several months' beard on his face. His sneakers were soaked through from the slush outside. Vito barked and wagged his tail, wanting to know who was there.

"It's just me," he said. "Boy, you got big!"

A-- and E-- were sitting on the couch in the living room under a blanket. It was November and the heating was turned to the max, but it wasn't enough to keep the body warm---just enough to slowly dry out skin and hair. They looked over at him awkwardly. Marc didn't know E--; A--, his best friend, was acting like he hadn't just showed up suddenly after being gone for five years. Like he wasn't returning from a year's long voyage out on the road.

"There's a show at D--'s place tonight," A-- said. D-- and his "place" were also both new. When the three of them made their way there several hours later, it turned out to be an apartment on Van Horne. Early in the morning, the shadow of the St. Lawrence Warehouse extended to the same front door that stood ajar this winter night. The door was auspiciously located on an acutely-angled corner, next to no-one, on a narrow industrial thoroughfare. D-- had committed his place to the lifestyle. The parties went late, they were chaotic and messy. The apartment itself was a shrine to Dionysus and every festival tradition they could manage. The walls and ceiling of one room were entirely lined in solver foil like Andy Warhol's Factory, torn and marked at points of easy contact. The bathtub was filled with beer cans and cigarette butts, and the door had been removed to leave no illusion that there could be privacy here.

They showed up early, before the bands started. It was still possible to carry on a conversation. Marc was sitting on the floor in front of the couch where two girls were perched. One had blonde hair and a European accent; the other was dark, with a wide face and the abrupt movements of a scarecrow. They were discussing films.

"I'm a simple guy. I like to laugh, so I like a Woody Allen movie."

It was 2015. Knowledge of Woody Allen's marriage to his adopted step-daughter was common knowledge, but the depths of his depravity had not yet been reported by Ronan Farrow and all the subsequent documentaries. He was unpopular, but not at the height of his infamy. It was an odd choice to bring him up at a party. Serious interest in the mainstream was a form of edginess that originated out of critical theory, but it took a millennial to turn love of popular art into a Möbius strip of ironic rebellion.

"But my first film, really, the one that opened my eyes, was *Breathless*. I found it by accident. Bought a copy of the Criterion DVD when I was 14, with money from my part-time job. I had no idea what it was, but I watched it endlessly. That's how I learned what it meant to be cool."

The blonde was named J--; she laughed when Marc tried to pronounce Godard, but seemed otherwise to be utterly uninterested in him. The brunette was named N--. She was more open to what he was saying. About 30 minutes after they left, he could no longer contain himself.

"I'll be back in a bit," he told A--. The party was just getting beginning to find its rhythm. The first band had finished their set, and the crowd was achieving a critical mass.

Marc ran home, only about fifteen minutes at normal walking speed. Vito *woofed* when he opened the door, but wagged his tail after smelling who it was. On the Facebook event page for the party, he scrolled quickly past the description, which he barely registered was written in an alien gibberish. He found the list of everyone who had clicked Attending, Maybe, and Not Interested. He kept scrolling through it until he saw her. *N--*.

"Hey, I wanted to talk to you more before you left, but it's too late. Maybe we can meet up some time?"

With that, he closed the laptop and walked quickly back to the party. He could hear it from half a block away. There were a few groups of people straggling outside, but most people preferred to smoke inside. A red balloon was tied to the chain-link fence.

***

A few months later, he was leaving her apartment in the morning.

"There's something I need to talk to you about," he said.

"I'll walk with you a bit," she said. 

It was spring now, and most of what they did together was walk around the city. They made it to the corner, where they sat on some wooden benches next to a mostly-melted pile of snow.

"I need to tell you that---I want to kiss you, but I'm afraid, I really don't know how---"

She interrupted him with a kiss.

"Look," she said, smiling shyly. "I'm not really into monogamous relationships...."

Winter came and went and came around again. Snow was falling softly as he sat in an alley writing her long text messages. She had blocked his number; he wrote because he knew she would not receive them. The MDMA was hitting. He was only a block away from D--'s place, although it had since been expropriated by the landlord and the entire building evacuated for renovations. Tonight he was going to a show at La Plante, a loft in the commercial buildings on the north side of the street.

Radiant Baby stood onstage, gyrating his hips, makeup and sequins glowing in the lights. As Marc stood by himself in the dark crowd, moving and feeling a profound connection to what he knew was just kitsch, someone tapped him on the shoulder.

"Don't I know you?" she asked.

"Uh..." he looked at her closely, difficult in the dark and with his vision swimming from the drugs. A vertigo overtook him, but at this point connections still felt possible. The city was still new; everything happened so fast and furiously that he almost took it for granted. This level of socializing was his only frame of reference, so for him it felt possible that he could go out alone, without any explicit intentions of meeting someone---just to be around people---and that a pretty girl could tap him on the shoulder in the dark and start talking to him out of her own volition.

"I don't think so," he said.

"Yeah, aren't you taking French lessons? Don't you go to the Centre Saint-Louis?"

"Wow, that's right, I do!" He was more surprised at being recognized than by being approached. Even with his small frame of reference---even feeling like it's normal that a woman would come up and talk to him, the fact of being recognized was not normal. Even now, at 25, in his glory years, he still conceived of himself as being invisible and anonymous.

"Wow! Yes, that's right!" He studied her face again. Curly dark hair down to her ears, high cheekbones and a sharp nose. He liked it.

"I recognized you," she told him.

They chatted as Radiant Baby continued through his set. Her name was E--, and she knew the artist, which is what brought her to the event that night. She was there with friends.

"Who are you here with?"

"Just myself."

She seemed impressed instead of disgusted, as he assumed she would be. Rather than think *loser with no friends*, which is how he felt, she interpreted it as an *intentional decision*. The show was wrapping up and it wasn't even midnight.

"Any plans after this?" she asked him.

"I heard there was a show going on at Brasserie Beaubien, I might go to that," he said. "Want to come check it out?"

"Yeah, that sounds fun," she smiled.

When he opened the door to Brasserie Beaubien, it was still and empty. The bartender was sweeping the floor; she glared at the two of them.

"Oh, well, I guess not," he said. "We could just go across the street to NDQ and get a drink?"

"Okay!" she said, still charitable. Luckily he had cash in his pocket, enough to pay for a Dark and Stormy. At the end of the night, he got her number. A few nights later, they slept in the same bed together, and he was able to kiss her. N-- had texted him the day previously that she had tested positive for chlamydia, and he was still waiting on his own test results. E-- didn't seem bothered when he told her. It wasn't until a few months into it that she revealed more of the context around their encounter. She had been dating the guy from Ought---the frontman of a sensational new rock band making international headlines---and he had broken her heart. Marc was E--'s rebound, but it turned into something more complex than she had expected.

"You're not basic," she told him. It was the nicest thing anyone had ever said to him.

He had never known anyone to embody the idea of emotional intelligence as aptly as she. She had the power to see through anything, to reveal motivations that became clear to him as she though she were shining a lantern into his soul. He never would have dreamed that his body language was as transparent as she could reveal it to be. Everything became legible as she pulled the wool from his eyes; even his desire to maintain two relationships simultaneously, she saw, generously, as a symptom of the virtue of loyalty. She was generous with him---always interpreting his actions as the misguided expression of a higher virtue. *Loyal to a fault.*

At Cafe O, she spelled it all out for him.

"If you're in an open relationship...then you can only ever be in relationships with other people in open relationships..." she said. "You aren't increasing your chances, you're limiting them. You're trying to have your cake and eat it, too, by having the fulfillment of a relationship without the constraint of being sexually or emotionally committed to one person. It seems like you're opening yourself up to more possibility, but you're really just reducing your chance of connection to a minority subset of the population. It seems Enlightened to be able to not experience jealousy at the thought of your lover with someone else, but really it's just a half-assed form of loving that insulates you from pain, maybe, in the best case---but it also prevents you from experiencing the joyful peaks of love."
