---
date: 2024-02-26
title: Ritual and Sacrifice
---

The proposed solution is to not change anything. *If you feel like you are making progress, why change?* We know from exercise science that constant shock is bad. You need to settle in, find a rhythm and pursue progress until the end. The only reason to change is when you have stopped making progress.

But If I don't go to Western, I need to make a sacrifice. If I give up on Western, it must be because I'm doing something else instead.

Studies are how you set yourself apart as an artist. Easy enough to be sensitive; challenging to have command of one's craft; it is most difficult of all to be sensitive, have a command of one's craft, and also to be knowledgeable. That's what sets one apart: knowledge is power, after all.

The question is not "what sacrifice am I willing to make," but "what sacrifice is called for." Do I want to continue working in restaurants? If I am able to make the same in this new job, or at least to earn the bottom end of the range---and to have up to 40 hours per week; well, there would not be much reason to continue working in service.

What I want is to work like 20, maybe 30 hours a week, but to still have enough money to support myself. Then I could have time to write. But it's not clear if I can't just write right now. I should be able to---there's enough time in the day, after all; it's not like I'm doing something all the time. Ritual is the only thing that can make it work.

To depend on these rituals, this routine, and yet---to remain open to the spontaneity of Being. That's the real challenge. That's the seeming impossibility.
