---
date: 2023-05-01
title: Deleted Scenes from *Polyamory*
---

Here's a scene that I needed to remove from the story I'm working on, but which I'm too happy with to simply send to /dev/null.

# 2012: Tinder and the Beginning of the End

The boys were hanging out at a condo Oliver Hine's mother was renting on King Street, near Bathurst. Out on the 21st floor balcony, smoking a cigarette, Rob Ravensburg's big belly laughed when Marc, pointing to the forest of condo towers surrounding them, wondered which one Drake lived in.

"Let's listen to this, it's the best song on the new album," Marc said, scrolling through the iPod plugged in to the stereo. He selected the song "The Ride," featuring The Weeknd. Epic and melancholy, Drake's signature sound; not quite a party atmosphere, but he couldn't stop listening.

Back inside, Rob showed them something on his phone. "It's called Tinder. You set up a radius, then it shows you all the people in that radius. All you do is swipe right for like, swipe left for dislike. If you both swipe right on each other, you can message."

"Yeah, I've been using it too," Jesse Feig said, pulling his iPhone out of his jeans pocket with his left hand while the other held his drink.

"I've got to get in on this!" Marc was excited. His phone was plugged into the stereo---except it wasn't a phone, but a product called the iPod Touch. It resembled the iPhone, just more flimsy, and without the PCIe chip that could communicate with satellites. He could use apps like the others, although they did not run as well on his device's weaker CPU, and he needed to be connected to a WiFi network. It only took a few minutes for him to create an account, for his friends to take a few photos, and for them to approve the few selfies he added.

"Okay," Jesse said, once he was ready, "now what I've been doing is just swiping right on everyone. That's the strategy. Swipe right on everybody as fast as you can, and anyone you get a match with who's hot, you message them. If they're ugly, you can just unmatch them. Or meet up and fuck them, your choice."

"No!" Rob exclaimed, "that's a bad strategy! You're going to ruin it for the rest of us. If everyone swipes right on everyone, then women become incentivized to only swipe right on the most elite profiles. It incentivizes them to have a selection bias that will eventually disadvantage the median. Women will become more selective, and we'll get fewer matches. It's basic game theory. It's bad for society to swipe right on everyone. Think about the long-term impacts, not just your immediate satisfaction."

"But it's the best strategy," Jesse insisted. "You get the most matches and it's easiest."

"It's antisocial!"

Meanwhile, Marc, rendered giddy by the novelty of so many girls brought into virtual proximity, and already having received multiple matches, wanted to swipe faster and faster---and in order to speed up the process, he naturally stopped looking at the profiles and simply swiped right on each new photo as it appeared. And the matches kept coming.

"Wow, you must be really hot," Oliver said.
