---
---

On 31 August 2023, *Apocalypse Confidential* published their third special of the year: [DUST---JOHN FORD AND THE SPACE AGE](). I submitted an essay written specifically in response to the theme proposal. *Light Enough to Burn a Hole in the Sun*, a title I came up with early in the writing process and thought was good enough to not worry about changing, was written over roughly two weeks towards the end of August. Possibly a week before that was spent gestating. I had only heard about the publication in the month or so prior. My memory is that I saw an old crush tweeting about them, but it's possible that is a fabulation and I found them through conventional means (i.e. I was presented with a stranger tweeting about them). The memory is hazy enough that it could go either way. However, from the outset, APCON stood apart in my mind as a venue worthy of my esteem through this initial association.

The second association was my friend Chuck, who stayed with me during the final week of writing, telling me about Anna Krivolapova. Her collection of short stories will be released by the publishing arm of Apocalypse Confidential this autumn. Chuck spoke highly of her, and I think highly of him. Two elements that boost the esteem of this publication in my mind. I went so far as to go through their website archives, and to read several pieces in order to get a sense of just what the project consists of. The combination of these initial associations, and the style of the call for submissions, led me to put a lot of energy into the essay I wrote for them. I am quite proud of it: finally, it feels like I am working the genre I want to. Finally, I am able to break free from the prison of academic style; to paint a picture, while also trying to address serious philosophical questions. A question that preoccupies me quite a bit, in fact.

One major element of the "literary" philosophical essay style, in my mind, is referencing things without necessarily providing citations. It would not have fit the "epic" voice I was going for to provide in-text citations. Here is a list of all the things I am aware of having woven into the fabric of the text.

1. The protagonist of the essay is Spirit; taken, of course, from Hegel. In the sense I am using it in the essay, it is intended to refer to the species in a social--historical sense. "Spirit" is "history as it has developed so far." It becomes more humanist than I like to be when I remove the theoretical aspect of the *Phenomenology of Spirit*, but it is just an image.

2. The central image of the essay is a drill boring through to the core of the earth. I am quite sure that I started writing before Charles spoke about re-watching [*The Core*](), and this image was there from the outset. The association between "modernism" and "drilling, digging, excavating" is a common one that I could not give a single citation for. However, I realized only last week that I owe a greater debt to Glissant and his *Poetics of Relation* than I think I had previously realized.

> Blah blah blah.

3. The next image is the idea of Azathoth, the lord of all the Outer Gods in Lovecraft's Cthulhuverse, sitting at the centre of the world. I started off with the image of Spirit in a drill, digging deep to the centre of the earth, but this was a very significant adductive leap that came on early in the process. I'm not sure which Lovecraft story I read this in---it may be that I only read the Wikipedia article some time ago---but some neuron fired, some crepuscular ray hit me, and I remembered that Azathoth was called the "Nuclear God." As Charles mentioned, this is quite simply an archaic use of the word "nuclear" to mean "at the centre of things," but given that I was writing about *Oppenheimer* and the photo of the Trinity test, it truly felt like divine inspiration.

4. The next important ingredient is the photo of the Trinity test. This is also one of the few things that I started off knowing that I wanted to write about. The photo is big for me, and I felt like it was time to write on it. Is the essay more a review of *Oppenheimer*, or more an analysis of this photo? You may notice that the colophon for this website is the "dark protozoic organism" that represents an "absence of medium." You will notice, if you follow me on Twitter, that it is also my banner image. It has been for years. It was the banner for my YouTube account as well. I use it often. I lifted it from ARTH 367: Postmodern Photography, a course I took in Winter 2018, led by Tal-Or Ben-Horween. As I recall, she used it in the context of discussing what constitutes art: is this photo, taken for mechanical/scientific purposes, an artwork? She and I both stole it from *The New Yorker*, which remains the only source for the image online, as far as I can tell. I revisited the article in writing my essay, and it appears to be a review of *American Prometheus*, the book that *Oppenheimer* is based on. Coincidence upon coincidence. I have not now and did not then read this article, only scrolled to steal the photo (in the pdf I submitted to APCON, I included a caption with citation details).

5. Past the halfway point, I added in yet another metaphor: the core of the earth is a "hollow world," where cro-magnon man stalks pre-historic creatures. This is another fantasy image that I feel is so generic I don't have a specific reference for. However, I believe that it ultimately comes from something-or-other by Edgar Rice Burroughs (most famous as the creator of Tarzan and Conan). Like the Lovecraft, another inheritance from my father. As a teenager, I used to write stories set at the core of the world about a pirate ornithopter, as big as a frigate, crewed by an assortment of intelligent animals. The main character was Hrothgrar, an "albino spirit bear," whose name is an osmotic corruption of the Norse god Hrothgar (what happens when you spend your preteen years reading *Bulfinch's*). A combination of Redwall and Elric of Melniboné. The idea was that, spirit bears being all white, the albino version would be all black; and, spirit bears being the most rare type of bear, their culture would be highly refined: the wizards of bears. But my Hrothgrar, being an albino (the inverted form), would be huge and inarticulate, showing the influence of yet another childhood favourite: The Incredible Hulk.

6. "The layers of the earth weigh on Spirit's head like a nightmare" is a spin on Marx's famous comment, from the *Preface*, that the "weight of dead generations weighs like a nightmare on the brains of the living."

7. The reference to "conquering reason" is an explicit reference to Glissant, who is himself referencing Deleuze \& Guattari.

> Blah blah blah.

8. The idea of climbing up the sides of the ziggurat to become one with the sun is an image I have been playing with for a while. It's in another piece of writing that I am currently working on. It's vaguely a reference to Aztec cultures, more so than to Early Dynasty Egypt, before they figured out how to make pyramids. I worry that it might be racist, but it's also perhaps my favourite image in the entire thing. I will be using it again, that's for sure.
