---
title: At the Tollbooth
date: September 12, 2024--\today
author: Uriah Marc Todoroff
description:
published: no
bibliography: /home/umt/doc/bibliography.bib
csl: chicago-fullnote-bibliography.csl
reference-section-title: References
---

## Thursday

The highway broadened to a dozen lanes as it approached the *péage*, a river of concrete magnifying the August sun, forest droning on all sides. Nigel stood in the shimmering heat with his backpack over one shoulder. At the end of each lane was a gate and a tiny tollbooth; and crammed into each was a man wearing a yellow vest. The closest of them looked over, whites of his eyes standing out bright. 

Encrusted in road grime, Nigel looked backwards as he made his way to a better position. He stuck out his arm. A sixteen-wheeler pulled to the right; its driver beckoned from behind the windshield. There was a ladder built into the vehicle's side, and as Nigel climbed into the cab, the trucker immediately said, “*Il y avait une attaque à Barcelone*.” 

The man leaned forward over the wheel, t-shirt hanging loose from his lean torso. Veins stood out in his arms. His hair was close-cut, cheeks shaved. “Someone hijacked a van and drove it through *La Rambla*.” The trucker advanced up to a gate reserved for large vehicles. He showed a paper to the man in the booth. The men in their vests were positioned to look down into passing cars, but here he had to stand and crane his neck to see into the cab. He looked at Nigel, confirming that the itinerant had caught a ride so soon, then stretched his arm to hand the paper back and wave them through. 

The trucker shifted into gear and accelerated out of the *péage*. “You can put your bag in the back,” he said. A curtain separated the cab from a neat little bunk with covers tucked smooth and tight. 

“Who did it?” Nigel asked. 

“Another Islamic terrorist. He's still on the run, but he won't get far.” The air blowing from the vents chilled Nigel's damp t-shirt. The smell radiating from his un washed body and clothing was quickly neutralized by the HEPA filter. The hot cabs of the other trucks Nigel had ridden in throughout Eastern Europe smelled like grease. All truckers are driven to madness, but France trains its citizens to maintain appearance in the name of their patrimony. Out in the margins, image corresponds to the interior. The Frenchman's wiry body radiated a sickly electric charge. On long-haul journeys, Nigel saw him using a hand-held vacuum to clean the floor, the upholstery of the bench; wiping down the console and checking the air filter. He would take one of the methamphetamine tablets sold at the Monoprix and prescribed by the company doctor, and drive unblinking through the night. 

The trucker glanced at Nigel. “They hate our freedom. Spain has a new party, Podemos. They're just a few years old, but popular. They're one of the most far-left parties in Europe. I thought they were going too far. Turns out I'm not the only one.” 

They listened to news over the radio, but Nigel could not follow the presenter's French. He got out of the truck outside a small village as dusk drifted into gloaming. Nigel spread his groundsheet under a bridge, laid down and traced the lines of its rusty iron girders, the cracks in the concrete embankment. Where were all those Roman aqueducts and Gothic cathedrals? This was no different from the nights spent under bridges back in the New World. 

## Friday

The sun woke him at dawn. He went to sit in the village square. Half an hour passed with no movement. A bakerwoman approached. 

“*Bon matin, monsieur*,” she said. “You are a stranger to us, but welcome nonetheless. Take this gesture of human kindness.” She handed him a *jambon-beurre* with a brave smile. He waited until she had rejoined the group in front of the cafe before he removed the ham. The baguette was soft and perfectly chewy, liberally fattened with salty butter and the brie's flavour of mild decomposition. It was not yet seven A.M., but the group in front of the cafe were used to being there early, taking in the cool sunlight, adding to the quiet with telegraphic chatter. The attack in Spain was yet another effect of laxened border controls; of course an increase in immigration leads predictably to the clash of civilization. 

A blue arrow on a white field pointed the way to the beach, where he found the public showers mounted for bathers to clean the river water from their skin. He didn't know the name of this village or its location, other than somewhere in the south of France; he could not remember which direction their drive went. 

He found his way to the road and stuck out his arm, glancing back over his shoulder. By the time the sun passed its zenith, hundreds of kilometres separated Nigel from the morning's starting point. His situation remained unchanged: instead of the claustrophobic heat and din of the *péage*, now it was the silence of rolling hills that weighed on him. Parched grass glowed golden in the afternoon sun. A ruined barn stood by the side of the road, blackened beams casting shadows that crept closer. An hour passed with no traffic. The quiet became more and more oppressive. 

He saw the car coming before he heard it. Saw it descend one hill, disappear on the ascent, then re-appear, diesel engine buzzing toyfully. It stopped in front of him as though he had called a taxi, not bothering to pull onto to the shoulder. 

“*Vous êtes loin de nulle part*,” the driver said, reaching over to open the passenger door. 

Nigel sat down, backpack at his feet. “And this deafening silence leaves me with nothing to do but think.” 

The man looked at Nigel through round, wire-rimmed glasses. His cheeks were shaved and his hair cropped short. He did not engage the clutch. “What's wrong with thinking?” 

Nigel spoke without regard for the car's hesitation. “Gravity weighs on me. The more I think, the more it pulls me down into the past.” 

“Thought is what makes our existence unique. Avoiding thought is like avoiding life.” 

“Jesus said, ‘Physician, heal thyself'---but how can I heal myself, if I can't get out of myself?” 

The man seemed satisfied that Nigel was not violent. He put the car in gear and they continued down the next hill. 

“I spent my whole life in Paris until a couple years ago. Bought a vineyard with some friends and moved out of the city. It took time to learn to enjoy the quiet. It helps that farm life is always busy: if there's ever time to sit, you're too tired to think. What's your situation?” 

“I was driven to this voyage out of fear and guilt. It's not the first time I've gone out on the road like this, moving about like a vagrant. I pursued every experience that appeared to me, but always preferred to look on. I had a lover, and we caught glimpse of the immensity of that proposition. I balked---and thereby have been driven out onto this vain and stereotypical quest for meaning.” 

“Philosophy was never my speciality, but all students in France study a bit. Plato, Descartes, Kant, just the basics.” The man brought his knee up and wedged his foot under his opposite thigh. “Spinoza was the one I really fell in love with. His *Ethics* turned me into an environmentalist, and he wrote centuries before the concept even existed. Our farm is based on his understanding of nature. It's a biodynamic system: everything contributes something, and the goal is to produce zero waste. What's your name?” 

“Call me Nigel. I named myself, just like Spinoza did.” 

The man turned his head to look at Nigel again, lips pursed. “Baruch became Benedictus after he was banished by his people. What are you running from, Nigel?” Some distance later, they pulled over at a crossroad and both exited the car. The man took a bottle of wine from a box in the trunk. 

“Here, take this. A bottle from the vineyard. God will get you where you need to be, my friend.” 

## Tuesday

Nigel looked through a stack of books next to her mattress, uncertain what he should be doing. “Listen to this,” she said. “It's an interview with one of the leaders of Podemos, the socialist party in Spain.” He braced himself. “ ‘Podemos is a hypothesis. It is possible to build upon the new political space opening in front of us. This is a matter of experiencing society as it is changing in front of you---watching Spanish society change after the *Indignados* movement, developing new ways of framing politics, of feeling politics, even of hating politics…' ” 

They were lying under her red duvet, propped up on pillows against the wall, mat tress on the dark hardwood floor. A lamp and its bare filament bulb cast a warm orange glow in the windowless room. Snow piled silently outside. She kept reading---her lips would not stop moving. She breathed in and out, chest rising and falling beneath her thin night-shirt. A blue flame sparked in his diaphragm, heating up his brainpan. Nigel tried not to let her body distract him. Her books did not interest him. He had not walked through the snow that night to read. He focused on retaining all the keywords he recognized in her speech. 

“ ‘There is now a cooperation and a solidarity that didn't exist before these movements… All this is an inspiration much greater than Marx or Spinoza, though there are people in Podemos with an academic background, like myself. I come from the Critical Theory tradition---from Adorno. Actually my Ph.D. was on Walter Benjamin, so I come from the Critical Theory, Marxist, academic left world. But I have learned a lot… in terms of how social movements and solidarity networks have developed. And my understanding of politics has changed.'” [^1]

[^1]: Maura, Eduardo. “¿Más allá de la izquierda y la derecha? (Beyond left and right?).” By David Mountain and Lucy Parker, with Nikos Manousakis. *The Platypus Review*, no. 72 (December 2014-- January 2015). https://platypus1917.org/2014/12/01/mas-alla-de-la-izquierda-y-la-derecha/ 

She turned her head to look at him. Her face belied nothing. “Weren't you reading Spinoza?” 

“His book on ethics.” He spoke quickly, rattling off everything he knew. “It was written in Latin, which was uncommon for the 17th century. The structure of proofs built from axioms and definitions is modelled after math textbooks. The religious authority thought he was too much of a pantheist, and they ended up excommunicating him from the Jewish community in Amsterdam. He had a huge influence, but published little and spent his life working as a lens grinder. He died young, probably as a result of inhaling glass dust.” 

“In Europe, our institutions are historically-oriented.” She spoke English with a Midwest accent; he always forgot that she was a French citizen. “Mass political movements have leaders with PhDs in critical theory. Academics are activists. In America, you will never catch a politician making historical or theoretical references.” 

“The point of that quote is that activism leads to a new understanding of philosophy.” “Well then if you're a philosopher, you should do more activism, right?” The flame in his diaphragm turned green. Something was burning. He drew ragged breath through graphite smoke. 

“I never said I was an activist. You're the one in journalism school.” 

“No, you never said you were an activist. You just read Tiqqun and Karl Marx for the status it gives you.” 

She turned back to her newspaper, a single sheet that needed to be unfolded to a square the size of a blanket between articles. As she was re-folding it into a new configuration, he caught sight of the title page: *The Platypus Review*, number 72. ‘The left is dead.' 

The shadow spread from his brain and wrapped around his neck. In the silence that followed, he felt a draft of cold wind from the storm howling outside. 

## Friday

In the grass by the roundabout, Nigel watched the cars drive in circles, diesel engines boring into his ears. He turned the bottle of wine in his hand. He would need to find a corkscrew before he could open it. All roads in France lead to Paris, and every village has a miniature version of the *Périphérique*, the immense roundabout that encircles the capital. Many of the landmarks Goethe had written about in his tour guide still existed, but had become so institutionalized that they held no interest for him. He felt at home sitting on the curb, feet in the gutter, and was unwilling to cross an official threshold. 

The École Normale Supérieur on the rue d'Ulm was one of the few locations he knew about: the top school in the country's Enlightenment-based education system. Just as all roads lead to the *Périphérique*, all studies lead to the ÉNS. Once attended by the likes of Sartre, Althusser, Foucault, Derrida, and so many of the stars Nigel spent his hours arranging into constellations. He arrived at the beginning of summer, during the height of the off-season. The tall iron gates stood locked, no activity discernible behind the building's arched windows. 

The lights were switched off at the bookstore on the corner, waiting for the students to return. The complete Galimard editions of Spinoza's works occupied the majority of the window display, arranged alongside a selection of secondary literature authored by *normaliens*: *Expressionism in Philosophy*, *Hegel or Spinoza*, *Spinoza for Our Time*…. 

Next to the bookstore was a *brasserie* with its orange lights on. It didn't occur to him to enter. Students from the school must come here after lectures, buzzing with possibility. What celestial machinations would it take for him to find his way to the ÉNS, the highest peak of institutional thought? Even if he had grown up in Paris, he didn't belong at the top. He would find himself moving to the country with some friends to start a biodynamic vineyard. The same doom lay before him as it does before everyone: to have started too late. He read Spinoza but couldn't understand. 

Traffic turned like clockwork in the roundabout and a spark began to glimmer in the corner of his perception. The repetition of Spinoza was a sign, he decided. Nigel lifted his chin and looked in the direction he thought was north. He would go and visit him. He had no idea where lay interred---had never considered visiting a celebrity's grave, much less that of Spinoza. The philosopher did not figure prominently in his conscious map of the stars, and yet he had become Nigel's North Star. He guessed that the tomb would be somewhere in the Netherlands. A blue arrow on a white field pointed the way to Paris. 

## Sunday

At the McDonald's in Aix-en-Provence, he learned that Spinoza was buried behind the Protestant church in the centre of The Hague. He got a ride into Paris and spent a sleepless night on a park bench in the 13th. After five hours with his thumb out in the constant flow of traffic on the *Périphérique*, he made his way to the bus terminal at Porte Maillot, where he bought a ticket for the next bus heading his direction. He watched the line of young black men sitting on the curb. The ticket brought him to the centre of Antwerp by mid-afternoon. He boarded a train bound for The Hague without buying a ticket. A hand shook him awake by the shoulder. Instinctively, he tried to pretend like he was still asleep. The hand only shook him more roughly. 

“*Billet, monsieur*.” The man's heavy face was pulled downward from years of shaking vagrants by the shoulder. His gold-tasseled uniform looked like an historical artifact from another century. 

Nigel did his best to appear groggy, even though he was on high alert. It did nothing to help him, however, when he had no ticket to present. The man produced a pad of paper, wrote him a ticket of infraction for 60 euro, and let him be. 

## Saturday

“You can keep the duvet,” she said. 

“Why would I keep the duvet? It's yours.” 

She thought about it for a moment. “You're right, never-mind. I'll take it with me and you can just fuck off.” 

She folded up the big red blanket. The sun was coming through his bedroom window. A copy of *The Platypus Review* sat on his desk: issue 96, May 2017. It was his room, his books stacked next to his mattress on the floor, but she had been living there for two months. Now her things were packed in a large roller suitcase that she wheeled over the hardwood floors, out into the warm air on the front balcony. 

“Let me help you,” Nigel said instinctively. She wouldn't, and instead awkwardly hauled the suitcase down to the sidewalk. The duvet fell and he picked it up. “Let me keep it, I'll keep it until you come back.” 

“Give me that!” She scowled, brushed some pebbles off, and balanced it against the handle of her suitcase. “I'm not coming back.” 

“You'll be back in two months.” 

“I'll be back in town in two months, but understand this: it's over. Fuck off!” She was walking briskly down the sidewalk, jerking the suitcase behind her. Despite its weight, the violence of her movement caused its tiny wheels to jump and bounce over the cracks in the pavement. 

## Monday

He was one of only a dozen or so stragglers who walked through the modernist mausoleum of the Hague's Central Station. They passed beneath the steel latticework and plate glass that covered the polished-concrete platform. Out in the streets, twilight was setting in. The shadows of late-night drifters blended into the oncoming night. The cobblestone streets had been planed to make walking and bike passage easier. Cold-blue bronze statues were scattered throughout the city, grotesque representations of stunted goblins with uncanny human features, standing waist-high in pairs and groupings next to trees and garbage cans; they would be sitting on a curb, or leaning against the side of a shop. They spoke among themselves and looked mistrustfully at the humans. 

Nigel checked himself in front of a weed store. 

“*Bonjour Monsieur*,” Nigel said to the white man wearing dreadlocks. The fluorescent light bounced off the white walls in the antiseptic shop. 

“*Je cherche la nouvelle église*. I'm looking for the New Church.” 

“I don't know, but there's no new church near here.” 

Nigel restrained himself from laughing at the man's accent and glanced down at the menu of the different available strains. He couldn't read it, but recognized the word *marijuana*. “It's where Spinoza was buried.” 

“I've never heard of him. Was he a musician, or an actor?” 

“He was a 17th century philosopher.” 

“So he died over 200 years ago? My friend, he couldn't be buried at a new church. It must be the old church. They use it for concerts now. It's just down that way, no more than ten minutes.” 

“Thank you. I'll take a gramme of kush. I'll need rolling papers and a lighter, too.” 

It was past 10pm by the time Nigel arrived at the tall building. There was more activity here; he could hear the sound of revelry off in the night. The streets were still only sparsely populated, filled with shadows, the small groups of revellers appearing like silhouettes at a distance. The church was tall, narrow, crammed into a small plot in the downtown core. The tall iron gates stood unlocked and ajar; Nigel slipped through the gap, backpack slung over one shoulder. Would the tomb be inside the church itself? He made his way around the side of the building. The only illumination was spillover from the street. 

There, behind the church, was unmistakeably a grave. A slab of rock in the earth, with another slab rising up perpendicular to it. The tombstone had brick wings added to it. He leaned his backpack up against them, and sat on the patch of grass, leaning back against the headstone. He had lifted a *limonadier* from a grocery store in Paris, and used it to pull the cork out of the bottle. It tasted sweet, light-bodied, only a hint of tannins. The earth where that man had picked him up had been dry and crumbly, warmed by an abundance of sunlight. He took another pull from the bottle. The tears were coming now. He began to break up the weed he had bought from the first person he had spoken to in days. Another pull, then he lit it up. Even in the summer, it was cold here at night in the lowlands. He couldn't remember the last time he had drunk alcohol or smoked. They had never been happy together, and yet it was the happiest he had ever been. 

\clearpage


