---
title: The Harvest
date: 2024-08-08--\today
description: Submission to The Page Issue 3.
published: false
---

I have been dreaming of that square kilometre so frequently, and with such vivid perspective, that I have begun to lose track of which image was unconsciously invented, and which was given by the city's Appearance. I remember walking down a broken alley and into a massive, empty industrial building; I wandered wide, wood-planked halls until finally ending up in a large loft space. Once used for some "real" purpose, now the detritus of industry were decorative features that pleased us as signifiers of something that was definitely, once, authentic and real. Those exposed pipes once served a purpose, even if no-one pays the heating today. A sparse crowd of hipsters is buoyed in an invisible spiral by the room's centrifuge; the sun sets through massive, poorly-insulated windows. Wooden floors and white t-shirts glow orange in the golden hour. The memory is not too special in itself, closely resembling memories that I am certain do originate in Appearance. It is a memory that resembles some of your own experiences, too, I'm sure. But although this one sits there in my mind, and I can see the exposed pipes, the windows, the sheer expanse of the loft walls, I am unsure if it's real or not.

The force of Understanding never lets up; and in my old age, yes, I have been known to indulge in nostalgic reverie. That square kilometre is squatted with ruined buildings, and at the base of each is a tarnished plaque that reads: *My name is Ozymandias, King of Kings; Look on my Works, ye Mighty, and despair!* Zarathustra screams relentlessly in my ear: *You must overcome! What if a demon came to you in the night?!* Well, I'm tired, old man.

I have to pass a quarantine border to return to that square kilometre. Once this zone had a purpose. Now it's obsolete, struck from the memory of our Contemporary. No-one visits here during the day except those members of an esoteric parallel society of Book Worshippers. Inscribed in their pre-historic Alphabet, the first commandment reads: *Never change!* While God rests, those possessed by the spirit of adventurous Youth dare to essay into this Kilometre with their bands of closest accomplices. Here, an entire generation of the City chipped their plows vainly scraping furrows in the unforgiving piss- and paint-stained concrete. If we had been blessed by the Book and brought into parallel flight from the Modern World, we might have learned not to put all our hope in the *crop rotation method*. Instead, we could have planted our seed in more verdant turf. Is it the Harvest Moon that lights this Page for you, Reader, or a moon tinted orange by fires out West? Me and my kind, you reading this, you know who you are: we reap our crop of chrysanthemums and radishes, but they are not enough to sustain us as summer turns to fall. Pebbles of asphalt dig into the palm of my hand as I lean back sitting in concrete alleyways that still hold the heat of the sun. An intense crowd of buzzing kids, drinking and smoking outside behind the underground cabaret. This was once the centre of my entire world. When I revisit those memories in my dreams with such vivid perspective, I see the shadow of a horned Beast looming over us in the night. More and more I chase that feeling that erupted out of nothing; more and more I chase the addiction of my own naïvety and following the first commandment---to repeat myself: *Never change!*. I see the shadow chasing me through heat waves in the night. Had we found a way to break through that concrete to the soil below, could we really have grown enough to sustain an entire village?
