---
date: 2011-02-04
name: Days of Heaven
year: 1978
letterboxd_URI: https://boxd.it/1JRg
rating:
rewatch:
review:
tags:
watched_Date:
layout: post
---

DAYS OF HEAVEN is another film touted by many as brilliant, evidence of
genius, a masterpiece, that I can't seem to get. It's not that I hate
the thing \-- it undeniably has its moments, and its style certainly has
presence, but it is overbearing: this is the key factor that keeps
superstar director Terrence Malick from true greatness (to my mind, at
least). Despite its image's beauty, DAYS OF HEAVEN has no hold, no
hooks; it is unaffecting.

The film suffers from two major flaws: the overbearing style, which is a
hollow shell concealing its core, or, I should say, *lack* of core. The
story is boring, unoriginal, and there are no truly dramatic scenes. It
is for this reason that I call DAYS OF HEAVEN unaffecting: it passes
before you, its drama, gripless; the only thing present on-screen are
spare images, underscored by an unexciting score that is completely out
of character for Ennio Morricone.

I am reluctant to lambaste DAYS OF HEAVEN because it is a near-perfect
realization of style, that collapses under its own weight. Under its
veneer of mood and atmosphere and beautiful, symbolic imagery, there is
an absence of meaning. Malick displays impressive skill, and its
production is the result of a formidable confidence, but it is a hollow
film, and I can not award it *any* points. Points are not awarded for
insubstantiability; a film can not be supported purely by its form.
Without content to fill it, it is an empty structure; the sword is, of
course, double-edged: formless content is not engaging, either.

The second great flaw, as stated, is contained in Malick's writing: it
is almost pathetically weak. The narration is its strongest point, but
there is no great challenge in writing the monologue of an ignorant
character. Malick's directs his actors quietly; they are restrained,
kept away from any real dramatic expression. In combination with the
script, in effect with the visual style, the actors are as handsome as
the shots they occupy, but as bland and insubstantial as the rest of the
film.

The story is dramatic, archetypically so, but uninspired. Love triangles
have provided dramatic fuel for an uncountable number of films and
plays: off the top of my head, Francois Truffaut's JULES ET JIM (1962)
and Eugene O'Neill's play "Desire Under the Elms," published in 1924.
There is no question that this plot element was first thought up
hundreds of years B.C.E., but then, so were they all. No-one is blaming
anyone for recycling dramatic archetypes, because they are generally
re-used with some sort fresh inspiration, some colouring of the story's
times. In the case of DAYS OF HEAVEN, despite its being a period piece,
the general atmosphere is one of timeless fantasy. The plot of a love
triangle used herein is absolutely uninspired: there are no original
elements to make it a compelling plot. This is no big deal, as the film
is resting mostly on its stylistic framework, but as I've already said,
this framework is overwrought and collapses in upon itself.

So despite its many positive and impressive elements, if I used a rating
system on this blog, I would be forced, only somewhat reluctantly, to
award it *no points*!
