---
date: 2011-01-08
name: Blast of Silence
year: 1961
letterboxd_URI: https://boxd.it/1hVO
rating:
rewatch:
review:
tags:
watched_Date:
layout: post
---

BLAST OF SILENCE is a comic-book film made in 1961, predating the
hard-boiled grit of Allan Moore and Frank Miller by almost 30 years. The
visual composition, the psychotic narrator and the general plot, are all
elements taken from old Hollywood film noirs, and comic books, a medium
actor/director/writer Allen Baron worked had worked in previous to this,
his debut film. Classic elements are exagerrated and taken to cartoonish
levels of violence and psychopathy, paralleling in a distinctly American
way, the trends being developed in France's cinema by, most notably,
Godard, with BREATHLESS (1960). These two films share much in common,
though Baron says it wasn't for at least two more years that he had the
opportunity to see it.

In BREATHLESS, Jean-Paul Belmondo plays a character that one can easily
forget is a psychotic, cop-killing lunatic criminal. In BLAST OF
SILENCE, it is impossible to forget: Lionel Stander's narration is
chillingly delivered, his voice almost grating on the ears, and a
constant reminder that the main character is not one to sympathise with,
that he is a demented killer. It is evident that he gets some sexual
thrill from stalking his prey. This ritual of following his "hits,"
ostensibly so he can murder them in peace, serves another purpose, one
admitted to in the narration, but which the character can-not realize
the full import of: he must bring himself to hate his targets before he
can murder them, indicating that, despite a long career and a
professional reputation, he is acting contrary to some base element of
his conscience.

The hitman of BLAST OF SILENCE is a fairly deep character, riddled with
complexes and subconscious desires. He is portrayed by his writer, and
the director of the film, who has stated that he did not desire to play
the role personally, but was forced to when he found that he was the
most competent actor he could afford with his limited budget. Baron acts
competently, but he misses some of the subtlety of the character: he
communicates a lack of feeling well, but this is not a difficult feat to
accomplish. What he fails to convey, is an expression of the character's
below-the-surface feelings and impulses. As I said above, the character
is a psychologically complex character, but many of these layers are
only expressed in the narration. This is no fault of Baron's \-- in
fact, it is to his credit that he recognized his own limitations, but
was still able to create a complex character in combination of good
writing, direction and competent, though limited, acting.

BLAST OF SILENCE is only comparable to BREATHLESS in a few ways: the
treatment by the director of their respective cities, the basic plot
centred around criminals, and an acute sense for visual composition.
With BREATHLESS, however, Godard flouted basically every cinematic
convention possible: the influence of Hollywood film noirs on plot and
character is obvious, but in terms of style, BREATHLESS is avant-garde.
BLAST OF SILENCE however, made by a complete newcomer to cinema, rather
than someone steeped in its history (Godard), is filmed in a
conventional style similar to most Hollywood films of the era BLAST drew
its influence from. Its editing is instinctive, and the direction shines
purely because of Baron's artist's sense for composition. For this
reason, despite an exaggerated sense of demented psychopathy and
violence, and many production traits that would become hallmarks of an
emerging "new wave" in American cinema, I call BLAST OF SILENCE a "true"
film noir, rather than some neo- revisitation.
