---
date: 2011-01-11
name: The Wild Bunch
year: 1969
letterboxd_URI: https://boxd.it/2a5y
rating:
rewatch:
review:
tags:
watched_Date:
layout: post
---

Peckinpah's existence is a mysterious one: how did he come to make
films? Is he considered a laughing stock, or an embarrassment? I'm
inclined to guess the latter, since many of his films are large
period-pieces, obviously expensive to produce. So far I haven't seen
anything from Peckinpah that can be considered entertaining. His films
have their place in history, certainly, but it is a entirely academic,
and not altogether meritable. He was an undeniable innovator of the
craft: key elements of his style have been adopted as standard in
Hollywood action-suspense-thrillers (and television!) of the past 20
years. This will be seen as a good thing by fans, and maybe for these
fans Peckinpah will entertain, but it is my opinion that Peckinpah and
all those who imitate his style, are the jocks of the film world.
Peckinpah is particularly crude, and, I'm fairly certain, stupid.
Despite the banal, utterly insipid movement he spawned, the worst of
these film-jocks has a producer to, presumably, keep him from
embarrassing himself and the studio. THE WILD BUNCH was released by
Warner Bros, and in it Peckinpah gives us a moronic, brutish view of the
world that the worst of his imitators can not begin to rival. Where, I
ask, was the producer on this film? It was shot on location \-- a
prudent necessity taken by Peckinpah to get away from the studio's
watchful eye? Was there no-one around with enough aesthetic sense to
realize that they were participating in a travesty?

I need to calm down. In THE WILD BUNCH, Sam Peckinpah uses long,
lingering shots underscored by mournful, diagetic Mariachi music to show
us his gang of brutal bandits. They are filmed with an obvious poetic
vision glamorizing simplicity, indicating that Peckinpah is actually
*idealizing* his characters, as though they were "real men;" and it is
an unsophisticated vision that would fall flat even if its subjects were
not idiots. His characters are completely unsubtle, unoriginal, absent
of any interesting qualities. The one potentially meaningful was Robert
Ryan's "Deke Thornton," the ex-gang member stalking behind "Pike"
(William Holden's) hardened gang with his own crew of gutter-rats. As he
is virtually ignored for the entire film, the character remaining
unexplored and only half-developed by the end, I can only assume that
the potential for interest in Deke Thornton is entirely accidental, or
was the actor's attempt to take the character somewhere interesting,
half-baked because of the director's lack of involvement.

The single aspect of this film that I can see to justify its existence
is Peckinpah's method of filming action, which owes a lot to comic
books: cutting quickly between point-of-view and wide-shots, action is
shown *sequentially*, in the manner of comics, to present us with the
character's perspective and give the viewer a sense of "happening."

Himself devoid of any sense of cool, hipness or style, his characters
and their actors reflect this: they are thoughtless brutes, played
blandly by boring-looking men, neither ugly nor attractive. Despite
this, they are still filmed with a technique that has become (since
Tarantino's films of the '90s, particularly RESERVOIR DOGS (1992)), the
stereotypical technique to portray "cool." Rather than take this as a
sign that he was a stylistic innovator, it is my opinion that the "film
jock" mentioned above takes from a collective aesthetic; that it was
only a matter of time before they infiltrated cinema, which used to be a
classy business; and that if it hadn't been Peckinpah, it would have
been someone else.
