---
date: 2011-02-16
name: Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid
year: 1978
letterboxd_URI: https://boxd.it/29Vy
rating:
rewatch:
review:
tags:
watched_Date:
layout: post
category: film
---

Previously in this series, I spoke about how fantastic George Roy Hill's [THE STING](http://wellimean.com/totalcinema/the-sting/) was. Prior to this marvellous example of Hollywood
production, the director worked with the acting duo of Paul Newman and
Robert Redford on this film. While not quite reaching THE STING's
perfect standards of excellence, BUTCH CASSIDY excels in all aspects,
just like THE STING. It is an artfully created, deceptively charming
film, written and directed with the same amount of sly intelligence THE
STING would be four years later.

BUTCH CASSIDY is a western, but it's also a fantasy, and this
fantastical aspect can be deceptive. Newman and Redford act out their
roles with hilarious charm, denying death throughout the course of the
plot, as if by refusing to admit to their perilous circumstances, it is
impossible for them to die. This is the fantasy aspect: there is no real
sense of danger until the final moments of the film; suspense is mixed
with humour to fool us into believing these characters immortal.

In the end, however, by putting the characters in a situation where they
believe escape is possible, but the viewer knows the end is inescapable,
the charm is gone; previously loveable, Butch Cassidy (Paul Newman) and
the Sundance Kid (Robert Redford) are now pathetic figures: our heart
cries out to warn them. But we can not, and they are blown to bits. This
jarring ending can be seen as immature in itself, a cheap shot at
emotions made vulnerable, but it confirms that BUTCH CASSIDY is no fluff
piece: like THE STING, it is written with a careful intelligence that
belies its amiable fantasy-romance exterior.

This disorienting ending has the two leads blown to bits by what amounts
to a "reverse" *deus ex machina*: instead of inexplicably arriving to
save them, the battalion of soldiers' presence confirms that they must
die as they feared they would: two-bit outlaws in a land where no-one
knows their name. This end confirms that the spell wrought throughout
the course of the film is wrought with intention. By bringing what took
two hours to build crashing down in about a minute of film, by smashing
the fantastic illusion to bits, George Roy Hill and writer William
Goldman are accomplishing a marvellous coup: using the vehicle of a
friendly Hollywood blockbuster, they manage to bring Brechtian ideals of
audience alienation to millions of unsuspecting film-goers.

Bertolt Brecht is a German playwright who completely revolutionized the
stage in the first half of the 20th century. To my mind, he is the most
important playwright since Shakespeare, and many of his theories have
been applied to cinema (obvious examples include the films of Godard and
Fassbinder). One of these concepts was the "*verfremdungseffekt*," or
the distancing effect, which sought to remove the audience from the
drama on-stage so they would not become embroiled in the fantasy and
lose sight of the work's function (another important Brechtian concept).
BUTCH CASSIDY can be interpreted in a Brechtian light in several ways,
not the least of which is the ending, which absolutely destroys the
feeling of escapism. Saving this potent blow for the ending is another
self-conscious move on the part of the writer: obviously an entire film
could not be produced in Hollywood's studios in 1969 that sought
single-mindedly to alienate the audience, so the fatal blow should be
saved for the end in order to cause the most reaction.

The ending, however, is not the only aspect of BUTCH CASSIDY that
removes us from its spell. The photographic montages and sepia-toned
scenes are all artificial, conscious effects intended to produce a
conscious reaction. By periodically disrupting the sense of reality film
obtains, the director is subtly reminding us that we are watching a
movie; subtly, he is distancing us from the action on-screen.

BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID is a fantastic film; it doesn't reach
the heights of production that THE STING obtained, but it is not
necessarily a "lesser" film than that one. It is as charming, engaging,
wonderful, and intelligent as THE STING. These two films represent
possibly the highest standard Hollywood studios of the era have ever
been able to achieve.
