---
date: 2011-01-07
name: Le cercle rouge
year: 1992
letterboxd_URI: https://boxd.it/1Tjy
rating:
rewatch:
review:
tags:
watched_Date:
layout: post
---

LE CERCLE ROUGE / JEAN-PIERRE MELVILLE / 1970

I have no real respect for Jean-Pierre Melville, and don't understand
how anyone could. I have more respect for Tarantino, whose 2009 film
INGLORIOUS BASTERDS showed that he was evolving as a film-maker, trying
to free himself from the constraints of genre. Of course he didn't
change enough to get past his exploitive "signature" style. Melville
appears to work in the same genre throughout his career, recyling the
same formula in the same style: from BOB LE FLAMBEUR (1956) to LE
SAMOURAI (1967) to this film, LE CERCLE ROUGE, from 1970, all
minimalist, hard-boiled films about men planning heists. With neat
editing tricks, on-location filming, and a boiled-down precision of
direction, Melville has an unmistakable style and his effect on the
*nouvelle vague* is obvious, but Godard and Truffaut had the sense to
change their methods, recognizing formula as the evil thing it is.

LE CERCLE ROUGE is about Corey (Alain Delon), a convict about to be
released from prison on good behaviour. He is approached by a crooked
cop and told about an easy heist. He meets Vogel (Gian-Maria Volonte), a
criminal on the run, and they take a moment to bond in a muddy field:
this is one of the few scenes in the film that develops a relationship
between two characters. André Bourvil plays Commissaire Mattei, the
policeman hunting Vogel, and Yves Montand plays Jansen, a sharpshooting
ex-cop and the third member of the gang. We are shown certain habits and
characteristics of characters, but for the most part they go unspoken,
and occur separate from the others. This is the film's most obvious
flaw: the various threads of connecting stories never connect. The
actors have no emotional relationships with each other, so how can I
possibly feel for the outcome? In the end, the various stories have no
connection, causing the moral to fall flat. "We're all criminals, it's
just a matter of time," has no meaning in a film populated entirely by
characters introduced *unabashedly* *as* *such*. Yves Montand's Jansen,
the ex-cop now involved (but barely) in the heist, appears out of
nowhere ⅔ of the way through the film and has no apparent motivation; he
is apathetic, giving away his share of the loot, and casually killed off
in the climax.

Despite the self-consciousness typical of French film-makers, LE CERCLE
ROUGE is pop fare, populated by easily loveable "badassery," the same
casually violent schlock that's been bouncing back and forth between
France and America since the noir film was invented. Melville's
minimalism and subject formula was undeniably important in influencing
others; there is also no denying his ability to direct precisely and
well, but to me Jean-Pierre Melville is a footnote, a stepping-stone,
worth reading about but whose films are worth hardly anything in
themselves.
