---
date: 2011-01-07
name: Husbands and Wives
year: 1992
letterboxd_URI: https://boxd.it/1pIe
rating:
rewatch:
review:
tags:
watched_Date:
layout: post
---

HUSBANDS & WIVES (1992) 

dir. WOODY ALLEN 

with WOODY ALLEN, MIA FARROW, JUDY DAVIS

      As Woody Allen grew older, so too did his onscreen persona, and,
necessarily, so too did the characters inhabiting his films. Although
HUSBANDS & WIVES is not the first of his films to explore the personal
lives of the middle-aged (SEPTEMBER, CRIMES & MISDEMEANORS, ANOTHER
WOMAN), it is certainly the best to do so, and probably his best film
of the decade.

      The story centres on two couples, expanding to include their
various love interests: Sally (JUDY DAVIS) and Jack (SYDNEY POLLACK)
appear to their friends to be happily married, and have been for 15
years, but in the first scene we learn that they're unhappy together,
and have decided to split. Their friends Gabe and Judy Roth (WOODY
ALLEN and MIA FARROW) are shocked and upset, the split appearing for
them completely out of the blue. Judy introduces Sally to a colleague
of hers named Michael (LIAM NEESON); Jack begins to date his aerobics
instructor Sam (LYSETTE ANTHONY), reveling in her unrefined simplicity
of character, a sharp contrast to Sally's detached coldness; and Woody
Allen, in the guise of "Gabe Roth, university professor," is his usual
ineffably-charming self. He begins spending time with a student of his
named Rain (JULIETTE LEWIS); he's enamored with her writing, and she
idolizes him.

      All of these things are filmed as *cinema verite*, captured by a
documentary crew that happened to be present at every moment in all of
the characters' lives. It's not that difficult a stretch of the
imagination, and through the device of interviews conducted after the
events portrayed, Woody is able to psychoanalyze his characters to an
extent unsurpassed in all his career. As they talk about the events
set in motion by Jack and Sally's separation, they recall more and
more bahaviour of their partners, and themselves, that is indicative
of unhappiness in their relationships. Woody also uses the same device
to its full benefit as a structural aid: we are introduced to a new
setting, and the character on focus free associates about how they
feel about it, and then, knowing and understanding their thought
process, we are taken through the scene. All of the nuances, from the
observational camera to Rain and Sally's sometimes snotty, brattish
tones, are carefully inserted and serve the film's purpose, which is
to give as complete an insight into these made-up characters'
psychology. The resolution is predictable and recalls some of his
earlier films (CRIMES & MISDEMEANORS, HANNAH AND HER SISTERS), but
it's justified, and satisfying in how much *sense* it makes after
plumbing the depths of these peoples' psychology.

      As in everything he writes, the film is saturated in Woody
Allen. Through the Woody Allen character, we are afforded glimpses of
his neurotic tendencies: the story of Rain's romantic history is
utter, utter self-parody. What sets HUSBANDS & WIVES apart from his
mileau, apart even from the three or four of his other films that are
extremely similar to it, is the hand of a master, clearly evident in
the completeness of the film's execution, and the clarity of his
vision in doing so.
