---
date: 2011-01-09
name: The Sting
year: 1973
letterboxd_URI: https://boxd.it/1Z5s
rating:
rewatch:
review:
tags:
watched_Date:
layout: post
---

It's incredible to me that films as magically, charmingly perfect as THE
STING exist. Incredible as it is, it makes absolute sense that Hollywood
was the exporter of films that concentrate on mass public appeal through
the highest standard of quality, made real by the American film
industry's boundless coffers. While the international and independent
cinema was defined by *auteurs*, talented individuals assembling crews
to create their vision, the studio system was about the "production." It
was about producers assembling all-star crews to work *together* to
create a vision. THE STING does not approach perfection because it is
confidently, professionally directed by George Roy Hill; or because it
has an exceptionally plotted, lyrical script by David S. Ward; or
because its actors created archetypes exploited almost 40 years later;
or because of its score, or the beauty of its sets: THE STING approaches
perfection because it has all of these things: each aspect of the film,
from the beautifully painted title cards to the theme (Scott Joplin's
classic piano rag "The Entertainer") to the editing, are all produced
with an attention to quality born of a multi-million dollar film
industry, the biggest the world has seen since the beginning of the film
industry.

And yet despite the pressure of history and the weight of its parts, THE
STING not only achieved what all genre films set out to do (to be the
best of its kind), it did so shockingly, drawing on the politics of
American cinema *now* (I should say *then*) to create something new in
the old style. By 1973 France's *nouvelle vague* had come and gone, and
films informed by this new aesthetic had been being produced in America
since the mid-60s. Films like BONNIE AND CLYDE (1967), MCCABE & MRS.
MILLER (1971), and the various films of Sam Peckinpah (particularly THE
WILD BUNCH (1969) and STRAW DOGS (1971)) allowed George Roy Hill to
violently draw blood and threaten characters with a death seemingly real
in THE STING, by convincing the studios that an independent cinematic
scene was emerging that could, eventually, prove a threat to their
dominion. THE STING proved that in a shifting landscape, the studio
system would be able to change, adapt, and stand tall.

THE STING presents itself as light, pop fare, buoyed along by beautiful
illustrations, a catchy theme and charismatic leading men. Scenes
showing Paul Newman ("Henry Gondorff") and Robert Redford's ("Johnny
Hooker") charming rapport and dramatic chops will not come as a surprise
to anyone who has seen BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE KID (1969, and
also directed by George Roy Hill). Despite this previous indication of
style and talent, THE STING is still filled with surprising elements,
particularly the final twist, which left me agape, and the action
scenes. These scenes are edited together in a way that perfectly conveys
a feeling of real-time urgency, where the characters are felt to be in
genuine peril.

THE STING's two stars, Paul Newman and Robert Redford (who, as stated,
had worked together with the director four years previous) come out of
the classic Hollywood tradition of leading men like Cary Grant and James
Stewart. They are evolutions of "looks" that have existed for leading
men since the first, familiar enough to work within the studio system,
yet new enough to be appropriate for the new crop of stories being told
by the American new wave. They represent archetypes the American public
has come to expect from Hollywood, today filled by the likes of George
Clooney and Brad Pitt. It is a sign that from the 70s to the golden days
of Clooney and Pitt, the 21st century, film in America has hardly
progressed. It is only now, with the new wave of leading men, generally
affected "bros" or shy boy-men, that the public's palate is starting to
change. For better or for worse is arguable, but signs of change are
increasingly evident.
